The market doesn't like uncertainty. It
loves it.
>> The acronym will be as AI.
>> I think the AI story is growing.
>> Next year, I think is really going to be
the year of the AI adopter. There is a
lot going on into next year. We're
positive, but I think there may be some
volatility.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Ending the year with a
bang. The last full trading week of 2025
stacked with economic data and rate
decisions. The headline number coming
tomorrow. Non-farm payrolls finally
being released. Follow up later in the
week by CPI. Traders meanwhile playing
narrative roulette into next year
weighing Fed rate cuts against weak
growth and AI skepticism. David Gur once
again pulling the short straw here with
us here. But we're so glad to have you
here in studio. It seems like people are
trying to get a Santa rally at a time
with this sort of dueling narrative of
are we going to get fur cuts? Are we
going to get a weakening economy and
does the AI story really turn?
>> Yeah, it really been called into
question. So, we get this long delayed
deluge of data this week. That'll be
interesting. We'll see sort of how that
casts a different shadow perhaps than
what the Fed chair said at that press
conference last week. His assessment of
the economy, his and the other policy
makers as well. Uh but you're right, we
saw that pivot in real time away from
the enthusiasm about that rate cut and
the prospects of of of what's going to
happen next year shift almost
immediately as soon as we got those
Oracle results. Then Broadcom um you're
right, the dueling I like the narrative
roulette. It's a great term.
>> That's what it feels like. Mike Wilson
of Morgan Stanley coming out over the
weekend in a note saying we are now
firmly back in a good is bad, bad is
good regime. Stuart Kaiser over at
Cityroup is rolling his eyes and
throwing things at the screen. But this
is a sort of key question. Is there sort
of a sweet spot where the data is just
weak enough to justify another rate cut
even as soon as January, but not so weak
that it really undermines the idea that
there will be some sort of economic
recovery to start the year?
>> And we went into that meeting last week
knowing that there was a deficit of
data, that the Fed was operating
somewhat blindly as it made its
decision. There was that question,
should they have just waited till
January? Was the insurance cut needed
then? Um, yes, the good news, bad news
thing I think is going to persist here
going forward, but a fascinating thing
for us to continue to watch and talk
about. Right now, we're trying to climb
back after ending the week on a pretty
soggy note for both stocks and bonds.
Right now, we're seeing a tilt upward in
futures, up about a half a percent on
the S&P. We're looking right now at
10ear yields that are lower, taking out
some of the heat after a sell-off that
led the yield curve to steepen to the
most going back to 2020 uh 2022. Right
now, 4.17%
rounded up in gold heading back toward
all-time highs. the precious metal now
at $4,338
an ounce raising this question of how
much more this haven bid has to go. We
were talking about the week ahead and
really we have to talk about the fact we
get non-farm payrolls tomorrow. On
Thursday we get CPI, we get a host of
different Fed speak. Coming up this
hour, we get Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth with stocks looking to bounce
back. Sarah Kunst of Cleo Capital on
mounting AI skepticism and Kathy
Basansic of Nationwide looking ahead to
that key week of data. We begin this
hour with stocks slightly higher to kick
off the last full trading week of the
year. Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
writing, "The biggest question for 2026
is whether or not everything else can
strike back and deliver the earnings
growth that is necessary to unseat the
narrow MAG7 leadership." Cameron, I am
so pleased to say, joins us here in
studio. Cameron, great to see you. Thank
you for being here.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, this is the whole broadening out
narrative. Is it actually going to work
this time? Well, that is the really
great point is that this time of year
you always are seeing this notion that
broadening out is going to be the hope
trade for for the next year, but the
reality is that it really does depend on
earnings. We looked over the last 3
years and the MAG7 has delivered
earnings growth of 200%.
You compare that to the equal weight S&P
500, it's been a whopping 16% over the
last 3 years. So for in order for this
to actually be a sustainable broadening
out of this market where leadership is
not just in this narrow cohort of names,
you have to see the earnings really
start to deliver. What's fascinating is
that if you look at earnings estimates
for 2026, you can see that MAG 7 is
expected to see deceleration in its
revenue growth from about 22% to 17% but
equal weight is expected to accelerate
from 1.5% to 5%. So there's a lot of
hopes and dreams weighing on this
broadening out.
>> Do you think that it really is
predicated on the idea that the economic
data is just weak enough for the Federal
Reserve to cut more? I mean really going
to Mike Wilson's point of Morgan Stanley
is good news bad news or sort of little
too good kind of bad and a little bad
really great. We have had the ultimate
combo for risk assets in these last two
periods where the Fed has been cutting
rates. What you've seen is that as the
Fed has delivered rate cuts, you've
actually been raising GDP forecasts. So
even though the Fed is delivering cuts,
you're seeing forecast gets ratcheted
up. That's why risk assets are so happy
because when you're raising forecasts
and you're getting easier policy and
liquidity, of course, you're
celebrating. However, if you start to
get data that challenges current growth
forecast and you have 2% growth that's
expected for 2026, not too high of a
bar, but if data starts to challenge
that growth forecast, then you're in an
environment where the Fed is cutting
because it should, not just because it
can. And risk assets typically don't
like that.
>> Are you of the mind that what we've seen
in recent days with Broadcom, with
Oracle has kind of eroded the narrative
that's buffeted the Magnificent 7 here
over the last year plus? I mean, are we
at a moment where there's kind of a
seismic change underway or are you kind
of still looking kind of narrowly at
those results and and and more
optimistic about its continued
persistence?
>> I think that there is now a broader
questioning of how much of this
supernormal growth can continue. If you
look at the MAG 7 over the last 3 years,
just as they delivered that 200%
earnings growth, they've also expanded
operating margins by a full 10
percentage points. Not 10 basis points,
but 10 percentage points. And I think
the question is is how sustainable is
that in a world where not only a are
they starting to spend a lot more money,
but b they're facing a lot more
competition because as we're seeing all
these AI narratives, whether it's TPUs
versus GPUs or it's it's Google's model
versus open AI's model, all of these
suggest that competition is heating up,
which means that they're having to spend
more money for their businesses that had
been near monopolies. And that suggests
that this huge run in multiple or margin
expansion could come to an end.
>> There's supernormal growth, if I can
steal your modifier there, and then
there's supernormal expectations as
well. Is this a moment when we kind of
rethink the the way that we expect these
companies to perform? I I think that
that is a fascinating question and and
when we hear about this idea that 2026
is going to be the year of the AI
adopter that effectively is a veiled
call for a broadening out because we've
long been arguing that the buildout of
AI infrastructure is going to be a very
different subset of winter winners than
the actual application of the technology
and I think the big question is is we
know that AI capex buildout will remain
robust in 2026 based on current guidance
but it is going to slowed down, meaning
the second derivative is slowing down.
And usually markets trade on second
derivatives. So we could be in an
environment where we look back at 25 and
say maybe that was peak valuations.
Maybe not peak earnings but peak
valuations which really goes to this
sort of anxiety. What is priced in? We
don't really know what is getting priced
in. There was this TAO survey over the
weekend that I thought was really
interesting. 400 institutional
investors, 53% believe the AI
initiatives are going to start paying
off within the next 6 months. Then they
interviewed CEOs. 84% of CEOs of large
companies expect it to take
significantly longer than 6 months to
monetize it. There is a gap in
perceptions here about the length of
time, the delta between some of these
investments and when you actually start
to get money. Is that skepticism being
priced in or are people just closing
their ears and going la? Well, the thing
is what's being priced in today is not
the application. It really is just this
buildout. And I think the big question
is can the application help fund the
buildout. I think it's interesting
Marian Webster just published their word
of the year for 2026 and it's slop which
refers to the AI slop and I think that
that's interesting in a time where we're
looking at open AI and they have their
code red and they're saying that that
soar is going to be the big source of
growth of video app and yet people are
saying it's just full of AI slop. So the
question is, can we see the kind of
revenue generation that's needed to
continue this infrastructure buildout?
And if the answer is it's going to take
longer than expected, do we see
infrastructure buildout capex forecasts
start to come down? And that suggests
then again that maybe some of this
supernormal growth we've seen in the
earnings starts to level off.
>> We'll have Mickey now with his hat
cleaning out some of that slob Fantasia
style, I guess, in store. But um as it
as it broadens out, as just the prospect
of it broadening out, where are you
looking? Where do you see potential for
that happening?
>> So, we think that there's a lot of room
to find opportunity outside of just the
largest large cap growth names, meaning
that you can look within things like
small cap and international in value as
well as midcap, but that's an area where
we think active selection really can add
a lot of value. Those indices tend to be
far less concentrated. There tends to be
a lot more dispersion between winners
and losers. So, if you're looking for a
place for active management fee
budgeting, that's probably the place to
go.
>> Um, that's fascinating to me. And we've
talked a lot about small caps as well,
um, on the heels of that Fed meeting and
over the course of last week, continuing
to see somewhat of a of a upward
trajectory there, continued upward
trajectory. What do you think when you
look at small caps doing?
>> Well, the challenge with small caps is
that you've seen this continuous death
by a thousand cuts when it comes to
earnings revisions. And this year is a
great example of that. You came into the
year expecting 40% EPS growth and the
small cap Russell 2000 index is only
able to deliver 6%. So when you look at
the 53% expected growth for 2026, I
think it doesn't necessarily deserve the
benefit of the doubt. But the p the big
point is that small caps also had a lot
of extreme outflows from positioning
over the course of the summer. and
you're still just about 1/5if of the
size of inflows that you saw at prior
peaks such as post the election during
2021. So, we think that there's still
room for a chase within small caps
mostly if you're in this this special
environment where you're expecting an
easier Fed and you're getting resilient
growth because remember small caps need
a strong economy and lower interest
rates in order to outperform. I'm still
thinking about slop being the word of
the year and that sounds about right.
Cameron Dawson, you're going to be
sticking with us through this entire
hour, which we're very happy to say.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. Australia's
government says it will consider
toughening gun laws after a father and
son killed 15 people in the deadliest
terror attack in the country's history.
The mass shooting at a Jewish community
se celebration of Hanukkah on Sydney's
Bondi Beach also left dozens injured.
Australian Prime Minister Anthony
Alvenezi described the act the attack as
an act of evil anti-semitism. We'll be
watching the story throughout the
morning. Meanwhile, a Hong Kong media
tycoon Jimmy Lie has been found guilty
of two counts of conspiring to collude
with foreign forces after a third count
of sedition. Lie, a British citizen,
founded and ran the now defunct Apple
Daily newspaper, one of the only Chinese
language outlets in Hong Kong that was
critical of Beijing. Governments around
the world have been calling for Mr. iz
release including President Trump and a
JetBlue flight halted its climb to avoid
colliding with a US Air Force tanker on
Friday. According to air traffic control
recordings, a pilot flying from Kurissau
to New York's uh JFK blamed the
military's craft for crossing its flight
path. The Air Force did not immediately
respond for comment. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Up next, maintaining
Fed independence.
I think I certainly should have a role
in talking to whoever the head of the
Fed is.
>> We would have no way. It's just his
opinion matters if it's good.
>> Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
and next for more. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
trying to get the last full trading week
of the year with some possible gains.
Maybe reprising the Santa Claus rally
right now. Getting an early start on
that. Seeing an inflection higher across
the board led by the Russell 2000. So
that rotation tilt, that broadening out
seems to be in effect up 310 of a
percent on Russell 2000 futures. You got
the S&P futures up a half a percent.
When you take a look at the bond space,
this is the why behind this. Hopes for
rate cuts, hopes for that biggest global
easing cycle going back to 2020, going
back to the financial crisis. Looking at
building on that with some rate
decisions right now, you're building on
the rally in the bond space. 3.51% on
the 2-year down to basis point. Even on
the long end, although hanging in there
30-year yield still at that 4.83%.
this idea of a yield curve steepening
that has steepened out to the widest
going back to 2022. The real question
here is the Fed, the Fed in 2026 and who
is going to lead it under surveillance
this morning maintaining Fed
independence.
>> I think I certainly should have a role
in talking to whoever the head of the
Fed is. I think my voice should be
heard, but I'm I'm not going to make the
decision based on that. I'll be making a
decision over the next few weeks.
>> Would the president's voice have equal
waiting to the voting members?
>> No. No, the he would have no weight.
It's just his opinion matters if it's
good.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
reportedly leaning toward former Fed
Governor Kevin Worsh or NEC Director
Kevin Hass pictured there to be the next
Fed chair. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now. Tyler, just curious to
hear from your perspective how much
Kevin Hass has been trying to separate
himself from the president and how the
president is really navigating this race
that continues forever.
Yeah. Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, it
appears evident that at the moment the
process does remain in flux. As you
mentioned, President Trump indicated in
an interview with the Wall Street
Journal on Friday that the two Kevins
are the top two contenders. This despite
the president repeatedly saying that he
already has an idea of who he's going to
pick. But then the president reiterated
what you heard that he would like to be
consulted on the path of monetary
policy. And to your question, I think
it's fair to say that really in recent
weeks, we've heard from the NEC chair
Kevin Hasset, the presumed front runner
on this, try to emphasize the idea of
central bank independence amid concerns
that he's too close to the president or
could cut rates too aggressively. Now,
he went on in that television interview
Kevin Hasset did to say that President
Trump's voice would be one of many
consulted by policymakers, but that any
rate decision is going to be data
dependent. He said he himself is of
course looking forward to the delayed
data that we're getting this week when
it comes to jobs and inflation. But
interestingly enough, he did also go on
to say that he would be willing to speak
to President Trump on a daily basis if
he ultimately was chosen to be the Fed
chair. Of course, Hassid is one of those
contenders uh the contender that is
closest to this administration and has
worked for President Trump the longest.
Now, it's our understanding that Kevin
Worsh had a meeting with President Trump
on Wednesday, and it's not clear at this
point if President Trump is going to
meet with any of those other contenders,
but Lisa, as you well know, this
administration is really putting lower
borrowing costs at the forefront at the
moment of its economic agenda as it is
trying to uh re uh re-emphasize this
idea of affordability, navigate to that
issue as we head into the midterms. It's
worth mentioning in that Wall Street
Journal interview, President Trump said
that he was not sure if his economic
policies were ultimately going to
resonate in wins for Republicans next
November.
>> Yeah, Tyler, just to pick up on that
point, it was a really interesting one,
saying that some of the money from the
one big beautiful bill and other
stimulus plans wouldn't make their way
through the economy, so his economic
plan hadn't taken effect and might not
uh before the midterm elections. Can you
talk a little bit about that and kind of
how he's setting up into 2026 when it
really comes to uh policy and potential
affordability issues?
>> Right. Exactly, Lisa. It was so
interesting to hear him talk about this
potential delayed in money. It seemed
like he was talking about the one big
beautiful bill. He also touted the idea
that some of the investments that he's
been able to get from uh foreign
investors might not make their way into
the economy soon enough as well as
tariff revenue, something that the
president has uh really focused on. We
know that this White House is trying to
go on the offensive now. They're trying
to put President Trump out on the trail.
We had that last week in Pennsylvania
and we are expecting, according to
senior administration officials, that
President Trump is going to continue to
hit the trail with domestic policy
updates. But at the same time, the
upshot here is that there is really slim
margins in the House of Representatives.
The numbers could change, but at the
moment, Democrats only need to net three
seats, which means that as we see these
consumer sentiment numbers, which the
NEC chair did say in his interview over
the weekend, the administration isn't
happy with where those are. So, we see
polling showing that Americans are
frustrated right now with the economy.
The issue that really sent President
Trump to the White House. It is clear
that uh this White House needs to make
up some ground with American voters as
we head into November.
>> Bloomberg, Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much as always. Cameron Dawson, a CIO of
New Edge Wealth, still with us. Cameron,
how does this sort of affect what you
expect for early next year if President
Trump is already talking about how the
money might not get to people soon
enough?
>> Is he saying something that we're not in
the economic data?
>> Well, I think the other thing that this
could throw into question is what
happens with healthcare insurance
premiums, which are set to jump pretty
substantially. It seems like we're at an
impass as to finding resolution to keep
those from jumping, which of course
would further exacerbate the the issues
with affordability. And it doesn't seem
like any of these issues are necessarily
getting better. Cutting tariffs on
things like coffee and bananas or beef
doesn't necessarily move the needle for
families that are continuing to get
their their belts tightened. The
challenge you have is that it just
doesn't show up in the aggregate data
because the largest cohort of consumers
just carry such a higher weight versus
the weak consumers that carry a very low
weight. So on the surface things look
okay but clearly there has been distinct
pain for quite some time for a lot of
consumers.
>> You're following the ups and downs of
this personnel search as we all are and
I'm actually just genuinely curious how
much you think it matters. So so there
have been moments when Kevin War seems
out he's in. Hasset's out he's in. uh
Hasset saying over the course of the
weekend and the president wants to be
consulted. Well, he talks all the time
about this. It's not like the president
doesn't have a forum to make his
opinions on monetary policy known. When
you think it through, how much does it
matter if it is Kevin Hassid or Kevin
Warish? What's this going to mean in the
context of committee? Because we did
hear from Kevin Hassid as well, him
saying what is so rightly true that this
is a vote by a committee. One person
isn't going to make a whole amount of
difference. And I think that that is the
exact key point, which is maybe there's
this calculus going on that having
somebody who has Fed experience, who has
been an insider at the Fed, might have
more luck getting to bend the will of
the entire committee. Because it's
fascinating, even as you had Hasset's
name getting floated around as being the
likely nominee, you weren't necessarily
seeing an upward lift in yields because
there seemed to be this assumption that
sure, he might want lower rates. Sure,
he might want to please the president by
cutting rates, but that doesn't mean
that everybody will vote for it. And so,
you didn't see yields move up. Now,
you're starting to see somebody like
Worsh enter the picture who has been an
insider at the Fed suggesting maybe that
there there could be a little bit more
success in bending that will.
>> Um, going back to the fog of data, the
lack of data that we've had, delayed
data that we've had. Um, how much does
the data that we get this week matter?
having the decision made already last
week. Uh the Feder talking about the
prospects for the economy, talking about
productivity increasingly. How much do
the the CPI and the jobs data this week
matter to you?
>> I think it matters a lot mostly for the
short end of the curve. If you look, the
bond market only has about a 24% chance
of a cut in January. So, if you were to
see an unemployment rate, let's say that
is in the high four and a half percent,
that could push up that pricing for an
expected cut in January, meaning that
those two cuts that are priced in for
next year happen sooner rather than
later. But then we'll also have to
contend with on the other side CPI. If
you look at current consensus, you have
headline consensus that's still expected
at 3.1%.
So how much of that will push the back
the feds back into a corner where
effectively they could still be dealing
with this environment where there's
upside risk to prices and downside risk
to growth? We see
>> bad bad news good news thing.
>> Yeah, exactly. This is the whole thing.
No, but truly this is actually the
reason why people are watching this and
saying if there's a little bit of
softness that might be a good thing. I
just wonder are we missing the plot when
it comes to the timing of the next Fed
rate cut? We have not seen a global
easing cycle of this nature outside of a
recession for decades. For the for the
Federal Reserve, it's the 1980s. For the
ECB, it's never. We get rate decisions
this week from the ECB, from the Bank of
England. We get a potential rate hike
from the Bank of Japan on uh Friday. How
much are we looking for the same and
going to get something different based
on the fact that the global easing cycle
is over? Yeah, I think that we are far
closer to the end than we are to the
beginning of this easing cycle and
you're starting to see it in short-term
rates on a global basis. No surprise
that Japanese short-term rates are
moving up, but if you look at German
short-term rates moving up as well and
that's creating an interesting dynamic
within currency markets and likely one
of the reasons why you've seen renewed
downward pressure on the dollar. The
dollar tried to break out in November
above its 200 day and has faded. And if
it breaks below 97, I think we could be
talking about a DXY in the low 90s.
That's important because that could have
big influence on what we see as far as
market leadership. Remember, you saw all
the outperformance for non- US stocks at
the beginning of this year in the first
three months of the year when you saw an
11% decline in the dollar. If you see
renewed dollar weakness, then we could
be talking about non- US leadership
again over a short period of time. Is
this kind of what you're anticipating as
we talk about these differentials?
>> I think that this is another great
reason as to why having a balanced
equity portfolio makes a lot of sense
and not being overly concentrated in one
trend, one market. And of course, if we
go back to that first quarter of 2025,
that was the first time in a long time
we you we got to be able to say you're
welcome for being diversified in
portfolios because over the last few
years really the only thing that you
wanted to do was just own the cues, own
NASDAQ, own tech stocks. And for a short
period of time, we got this breath of,
oh, it makes sense to be diversified.
And if we see renewed dollar weakness,
we probably see that narrative come
back.
>> Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
sticking with us for the hour. David, we
are getting some information from
Netflix saying that they are going to uh
continue with their position for the
Warner Brothers Discovery deal talking
about how the Paramount hostile bid was
entirely expected. You're seeing Netflix
shares up 8/10en of a percent. Uh they
said that they've got a solid deal in
place and they don't expect anything to
change.
>> Yeah, they're pretty resolute about it
and I think what we're seeing here is
them drawing a really strong distinction
between these two deals or the the deal
that the Paramount would like to have.
And I think what Netflix has said all
along is there wouldn't be the need for
the kind of cost cutting redundancy that
you would see if Paramount were to win
out over them going forward here that
obviously Netflix doesn't have a studio.
There's kind of a complimentarity there
um that you wouldn't have if Paramount
were to were to go through with this. So
again looking at just the Q&A that we're
seeing here today. Our stance then and
now is the same. We see this as a win
for the entertainment industry, not the
end of it. The deal is about growth.
Warner Brothers brings businesses and
capabilities we don't have.
>> Yeah. And talking about how they are
committed to the theater business. So
AMC maybe a a breath of of relief
because this is something that certainly
Hollywood was very concerned about.
We'll get you more updates on that
throughout the morning. Coming up next,
Sarah Kunst of Cleo Capitals. Oracle's
AI delays reflect growing unease. You're
seeing that unease in the share price as
well. Plus, Yah with your morning
movers. I robot the Roomba. It's
bankrupt. This is Bloomberg.
It may feel over, but it's not. It's
winding to an end. This is the last full
week of 2025, and right now we have a
stacked uh deck ahead given the fact
that we get non-farm payrolls that we
get CPI. Right now, people are
anticipating a strong finish, half a
percent gain on the S&P. You are seeing
that sort of 117 level on the Euro
dollar. Just stay around there. Really
has been quiet in the FX space. And you
do see a slight rally into the long end
of the yield curve. Watch the space
after that yield curve steepening that
we saw last week of 416 on the 10-year.
Gold going back toward an all-time high
up almost a percent. Really, this has
been a stalwart. What's gold saying?
That's what a lot of people are going to
say. What's Yahira Anen saying? 3 hours
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with Yhira. Yah.
>> Hi Lisa. Well, tech is starting the week
on a better note and Nvidia is leading
the charge. We are seeing shares up 1.2%
2% after a more than 3% drop on Friday
when doubts around the AI trade started
to swirl partly due to that Oracle story
that we reported that it was delaying
some of its data centers for OpenAI and
of course Broadcom Broadcom's results
failing to impress investors. Meanwhile,
we we move on to some M&A chatter with
Intel. Uh sources telling us that Intel
is in advanced talks to buy uh AI chip
startup Samanova for $1.6 billion. well
below the $5 billion valuation it was
given back in 2021. Investors are
reacting positively to the deal, not
just because it is a bargain, but also
because it provides a platform for Intel
to compete with Nvidia's AI chip.
Sources telling us that a deal could
close as soon as next month. And we end
on the Roomba maker. As you said, iRoot
plunging more than 80% after it filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy with plans to
go private after it hands over the
reigns to its main Chinese supplier. Of
course, its uh autonomous vacuum
cleaners were all the rage at one point,
but it's failed to keep up as cheaper
alternatives have hit the market. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, I just want to
point back to Netflix and Warner
Brothers. Netflix coming out with a
filing earlier this morning just moments
ago saying that their bid for Warner
Brothers has not changed in any way
saying that the uh bid from Paramount
was entirely expected but they have a
solid deal in place. They continue to
reiterate the benefits for the consumer
and those shares up 7/10 of a percent.
>> Fascinating to watch but this is going
to be a saga that's going to last a long
I know we're up against this deadline
when Warner Brothers has to decide
whether or not to take the Paramount,
sorry, the Netflix offer, but I think
that we're going to see this back and
forth and that that was kind of
indicated before this deal was
announced. You saw Paramount sending a
letter from its legal team to Warner
Brothers saying it didn't feel like it
had a fair shake in the introductory
part of this. But I think this is going
to be a story that plays out over over
many months. And again, I think that
that distinction between these two deals
come in starker relief as it goes along.
But we'll keep looking for more filings
like this one.
>> Yeah. And it comes as global transaction
volumes of volumes has risen 40% so far
this year from the prior year. Honorator
this morning NEC director Kevin Hasset
saying he would listen to President
Donald Trump's advice if he made a Fed
chair. However, Hasset stressing that
the Fed's interest rate decisions will
remain independent. Meanwhile, uh
Ukraine President Vladimir Zalinsky
considering security guarantees from the
United States and Europe in place of its
long-term goal of joining NATO. Ukraine
has sought membership for years, but has
altered its rhetoric as Washington
presses for the war to end. And this
story catching our eye. China's economic
recovery hitting a wall. Retail sales
rising at the slowest pace on record
outside of the CO 19 pandemic. And fixed
asset investment is on track for its
first annual drop since 1998. Cameron
Dawson, to me, this sort of raises this
issue of are we seeing a reaceleration
of China that some people were talking
about and betting on, or is this
something different? I think that this
could challenge the broader pro-yclical
narrative that has taken over markets
over the last couple of months. You've
seen a lot of movement in things like
industrial commodities, which we
typically see are very related to the
Chinese market given that it's been very
infrastructure focused economy. And so
you've seen some perkiness in those
prices. However, if you start to see
China not deliver on growth, does that
suggest that you see more weakness kind
of start to set in? The real big
question though is that if there is a
lot of weakness within the Chinese
economy, that usually causes people to
say, "Oo, we're going to get more
stimulus and thus we can be bullish
after all."
>> Well, this has sort of been the story
for a long time. But right now, it seems
like for investors, they're looking at
whether Chinese tech can really beat out
the United States. And that is the big
bet right now in China because
ultimately, as we see in the United
States, the actual economy can fall off
a cliff, but you can still see tech sort
of fill in the blanks.
>> Yeah. in Chinese tech on the Golden
Dragon index peaked back at the
beginning of October and has been
trading pretty heavy ever since, not
keeping up with US tech shares. So, the
trend doesn't look all too inspiring.
We'd watched the technicals really
closely for a sign that this breakout
could actually be sustained. Let's stick
with tech. NASDAQ futures bouncing back
after Oracle announced plans to delay AI
data centers and that led to a pretty
huge sell-off uh in the prior week.
Joining us now is Matt Bloxom of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Matt, just how
serious are some of these delays and how
different is the likes of Oracle and
OpenAI from the behemoths of Nvidia and
Microsoft?
M yeah, you know, I mean, they're
obviously significant, but I think in
terms of their ability to kind of honor
near-term commitments that there's no
risk there, and I think they made that
clear in some of their statements. But,
you know, I think what it does go to
show uh the huge bottlenecks um in the
development of these big new data
centers needed uh to kind of support the
uh the the demand for AI and more
broadly cloud computing. And you know,
we've heard um comments like this from
the likes of Microsoft who said, you
know, that they would be uh recognizing
more revenue if they could. They just
can't bring enough capacity on stream
quick enough. Uh and I think what we're
seeing here with Oracle is essentially
rep prioritizing
um their finances, but also the
resources and raw materials they can get
hold of um into the data centers that
they need to bring on stream sooner uh
to kind of deliver on those commitments
mainly to open AI. You know, there's so
many people building data centers that
the kind of the the human manpower you
need to build them and design them uh
that the power uh all of the electrical
components go into creating these data
centers is in really short supply.
>> Matt, Oracle certainly having its day or
week in the sun here. Uh I'm curious how
much you look at it as a as a proxy. So
Lisa mentioning some of those other
names, but when you look at the kind of
bottleneck you're describing, is it
something widely shared by its
competitors or does it stand kind of
alone uh in that regard?
No, it's very much an issue we see
shared across uh competitors. Uh as as I
mentioned to you, Microsoft in
particular has kind of uh called out the
uh the challenges they face in bringing
enough capacity on stream. So it's it's
an industrywide issue that issue. That's
not to say um that you know we aren't
seeing huge construction take place. We
really are. But it's you know taking
place across so many big players with
big budgets uh that this is really
stretching uh the the capacity of the
the data center. um ecosystem uh beyond
anything that we've seen before ever.
>> Matt Bloxom of Blueber Intelligence,
thank you so much for those insights.
Sarah Kuna of Cleo Capital writing,
"Ora's core business just isn't going to
grow as fast or as cheaply as people
wish. Oracle is a solid cloud company.
It's much less clear that it's an AI
data center darling." Sarah joins us now
as we parse through expectations versus
reality. As Sarah, so thank you so much
for being with us. I want to just start
there. I mean, how much has the froth
has has already come out of the likes of
Oracle with a 40% decline in that name
since its peak this year?
>> Absolutely. Um, you know, I I think that
the reality is that they jumped into
this trend a little bit late. Um, they
saw a massive spike up. Um, and now
people are realizing that that the
financials don't quite work as well as
we had hoped. And so, I think that there
is some sort of uh locking in gains and
and saying maybe this isn't going to go
to the moon. Well, this raises a
question who is actually doing a good
job right now of managing expectations
while continuing to be the darling of
the data center and AI world. On one
hand, you could say Nvidia. On the other
hand, you could say they had a $5
trillion valuation. Their questions
about competition. Is it Meta? Is it
Microsoft? Is it, for example, what we
see with Amazon and some of the new
chips. Where is your eye sort of set?
>> So, I have been saying this from the
very beginning. Um, I think it's
alphabet. uh when you look at what sort
of catalyzed this AI trend um it was
open AI but the researchers at open AI
were all uh mostly Google alums who had
been there writing that initial paper uh
I think it's called attention is all you
need that really kickstarted this sort
of generative AI uh boom and most of
them have left open AI but but Google
certainly has an insane amount of talent
with its deep mind team um you know
Gemini is baked in there's clear revenue
streams s there. Uh they can make money
on the advertising. They have the
capacity around data centers. They can
do interesting things with chips. We
know that because of their work with
stuff like Whimo. Um I think that
Google's the winner here. I've been
saying that forever while everybody else
on the street was saying, you know,
Google's Google's missing the boat on AI
and the reality is uh I think that they
are so far out ahead of the current.
Sarah, if we continue to see some
weakness in some of the mag seven names
like Meta, do you expect that we could
see them start to turn to a little bit
more discipline in their spending? Kind
of akin to what we saw back in 2022
where if the share prices continue to
come under pressure, they may not be
able to spend quite as much.
>> Oh my god, you have to be so mean to
Zuck to get him to re in his spending.
um you really really really have to make
that man look at the stock price quarter
over quarter over quarter before he
starts to say maybe they don't like what
I'm doing. Um and I think the difference
this time with that sort of legless
metaverse thing that he was on a few
years ago before that year of austerity
is that the market does like AI. The
market cooled on the metaverse very
quickly. Um it's not going to cool on AI
in the same way. And so I think that you
will continue to see Meta spend. I think
the question is who they spend it on. Is
it a good idea to to let Yan Lun go? Um,
is it a good idea to have Alexander Wang
in that role instead? We know that
there's a lot of tension inside of those
teams. How much work are they really
getting done while they're getting paid
up to a billion dollars a year? So,
those I think are the kinds of questions
that are going to be top of mind for
Zach much faster than should I give up
AI altogether.
>> We, in fairness, we did see Mark
Zuckerberg have some um rethinking of
the metaverse. it seems like at his
Hawaiian retreat when he decided to make
some cuts to Meta over over the course
of of Meta Staff over the course of the
last few weeks. Um, bearing that in
mind, I'm curious what what level of
introspection you think is happening in
this sector broadly. So, we've talked a
lot about kind of the capital
investments, how much of that has been
paid for by debt now. Um, are are we at
a moment in this story where there is
kind of a a more general re-examination
of the way all of this is proceeding?
>> Look, they're all still the richest men
in the world. Um, I I don't think that
losing like two pieces of gold on your
Scrooge McDuck pile makes you
fundamentally rethink your life's work.
Um, I do think though that there are
real questions about the cost of doing
AI. Um, when you look at things like
OpenAI, Sora, uh, I've seen estimates
that say that it can cost up to $5
uh to to make a 15-second video clip
that they are giving to people largely
for free. Where do you get that ROI on
that? and and that's true across the the
category across the sector. So there's
so much money being moved around
everywhere except from customers wallets
to these companies. And I do think that
next year the big question is going to
be could we get somebody to pay us for
this please? Sarah, just real quickly
here, how much are you seeing Upstarts
really come with great ideas that you
think could be successful in this
environment or are some of the largest
uh companies really consolidating uh
talent and market share in a way that
really prohibits some of these smaller
companies from getting in?
>> I think it's I think it's a little bit
of both. Um, smaller is a funny question
to ask when you have people like the
OpenAI team like Ilia, you know, leaving
and immediately being able to raise at
multi-billion dollar valuations with
multiund million dollar seed rounds.
That's the new small. Um, but we
certainly see a lot of that. There's a
tremendous amount of talent globally um
in the AI space. Um, and so I do think
that we will see, you know, I have names
like Grock with a cube,
the Elon Musk one um that have done
incredibly incredibly well. So, you
know, I think that there are good
startups here. It's just a question of
is the market is the private market
going to continue to be interested in
funding them um before we really see the
revenue come online across any of these.
>> Sarah Co of Cleo Capital, thank you so
much for being with us this morning.
Cameron, what do you make of that? This
idea uh that really it is Google. The
others kind of uh you know, Zuck, you
have to just be really mean to in order
for him to do anything like ratchet back
his spending. Yeah, I remember the the
hoopla when all of a sudden he goes
there's pants in the in the metaverse.
We now have pants. I this all comes down
to the returns that they're going to see
on all of the spinning. And I think
it'll be fascinating on Sarah's last
point as to what happens if we start to
see them push into public markets. Could
we see an IPO of one of these AI
darlings in 2026? I know it's not AI,
but SpaceX is talking about potentially
doing an IPO. You've seen a little bit
of a heavier trading activity in the IPO
ETF, which is a great barometer for how
the market is willing to accept new
issuance. So, let's see if we can get
one of these mega deals out onto the
street in in public markets and if that
could open the door for more capital
raises from public markets for AI
companies.
>> Yeah. David, what was it? $800 billion,
I think, for SpaceX.
>> That's what I saw. Yeah. Yeah. But, you
know, picking up on this point that she
was making about who's going to pay for
all of this, I do think this distinction
between who's working on enterprise AI
versus consumerf facing AI is going to
be fascinating to watch going forward
here as well. Obviously, OpenAI is doing
both, but kind of betting on the
consumerf facing side, but you have
Anthropic and others, Google certainly
among them, um, really making the case
that that's where all of this is really
going to manifest itself in progress and
improvements in our day-to-day lives. If
it can be used for medical research or
making our jobs more efficient, um, I
think that'll be a very fascinating
thing to watch going forward here. How
much will you pay to ask Chachi BT why
does my elbow hurt? I mean that will be
the sort of key question right now.
Let's discuss less of that more of this
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief.
President Trump is suggesting the US
will do quote big damage to militants
behind a deadly attack on American
forces in Syria. Two soldiers and an
interpreter were killed over the weekend
during counterterrorism operations.
Trump is blaming the assault on the
Islamic State terror group. Meanwhile,
Brown University has sent students home
and called off final exams for the fall
semester after a shooting killed two
students and injured nine. The shooting
occurred on Saturday in an engineering
building, prompting a shelter in place
order that was later lifted in the day
uh a day later. A person of interest was
detained yesterday, but he was later
released. And Hollywood director and
actor Rob Reiner and his wife were both
found dead inside their Los Angeles home
this weekend. The couple reportedly died
from stab wounds. Reiner, a well-known
activist who contributed to liberal and
democratic causes, was 78. His wife
Michelle Singer was 68. And he was, of
course, the director of uh movies like
The Princess Bride, as well as When
Harry Met Sally. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief. Up next, watching for
cracks in the data.
>> We might be starting to get the data
that really starts confirming, whoa,
something's not quite working. Now we're
at that proof is in the pudding and I'm
a little bit nervous that the jobs data
is going to show this is not working the
way we hoped it would be.
>> Kathy Bastanic of Nationwide joins next
from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We're trying this again to end the year,
possibly getting that Santa rally and
potentially building on gains that we've
seen earlier this month. Right now, you
are seeing about a half a percent lift
to S&P futures. You see sort of a some
kind of move in the currency space.
Honestly, it has been almost entirely
flat between 116 and 117 on the Euro
dollar cross and 10ear yields now in a
complete two basis points at 4.16%.
Gold, watch this space as the precious
metal climbs back toward all-time highs.
People saying maybe it got over its
skis. Well, maybe it's getting back
there after a rip roaring rally this
year. Under surveillance this morning,
watching for cracks in the data.
>> We might be starting to get the data
that really starts confirming, whoa,
something's not quite working. Now we're
at that proof is in the pudding and I'm
a little bit nervous that the jobs data
is going to show this is not working the
way we hoped it would be. People aren't
comfortable leaving their jobs. That
tells you everyone knows the job
market's a little bit sketchier than
maybe the data shows. There's a risk
that this data comes in much weaker than
we're expecting. I'm definitely not
quite saying green about the economy. I
think there are some risks there.
>> Here's the latest. Traders bracing for
the final data points of the year and
looking for clues on the Fed's path
forward. Kathy Bastanic of Nationwide
writing this. We expect a long pause
until June, allowing time for inflation
to peak and start trending lower and
coinciding with the end of Chair
Powell's term. Kathy joins us now.
Kathy, before we get into the discussion
around the Fed, let's talk about the
actual economy. How weak is weak when we
get non-farm payrolls tomorrow?
>> Well, good morning, Lisa. Um, so we're
expecting, yeah, soft reading up 25,000
overall. Now, that's for the month of
November. We will get October, November,
but I think the focus really goes to
November. Um and and for you know the
household survey which gives us of the
unemployment rate. Chair Pal's already
warned us that it's going to probably be
distorted. They really didn't have the
normal time and process to collect data.
Um so I think you pay a little bit of
grain of salt to the household survey
the unemployment rate. Um but payrolls
we think are weak and and we think the
risk is on the downside especially since
government workers are going to be
rolling off severance that could really
drive the number even uh to a lower
level. Peter, you're talking about the
sketchiness of the the jobs market. Let
me ask you more about the sketchiness of
of these data. So, you're getting at
what I'm very curious about, which is
lowquality data coming out of this
government shutdown. The challenge of
sort of getting a good read on the labor
market given that given what Chair
Powell said at that press conference
about how accurate this data might be,
what might be counted, what might not
might not be. Um, talk a bit about that,
the veracity of this data, the
importance of this data given what we
know are kind of deficits of it.
Yeah, know all all concerns and great
question. Um, you know, my sense is um
the the payroll data will be um more
reliable really. They can reach out to
establishments, companies, get that
data. It it's not as difficult of a
task. In fact, you can make the argument
maybe it's even a bit more accurate
because they had more time. Remember a
lot of the companies are slow to respond
in the first uh you know when they
survey for the month and then the
revisions catch a bigger swath of the of
the data. The household survey is a
different story because you actually
have people calling um you know
households and ask them are they looking
for a job are they employed and things
like that. That wasn't really done
completely. Um, and I think that's
where, you know, Chair Pal is warning
us, you know, don't pay too much
attention to the unemployment rate. I
think once we get the December data,
we'll get a better reading. Um, but I
think the payroll data, it has such a
wealth of information. We'll get wages,
you know, um, hours worked, um, you
know, breakdown of where employment is.
I think that is enough to kind of
satisfy us for now, especially since
we've had such a drought of data.
>> You heard Peter say that he's not
sanguin about the the course of the
economy. I'm curious how you reacted to
the tone and tenor of what the Fed chair
said on Wednesday of of last week. I I
won't say that he had a rosy outlook for
for the economy. When it came to growth,
for instance, he did seem to be more
positive than he had been uh in the
past. What what did you make of that?
The way that he engaged with prospects
for growth, the way that he talked about
uh productivity, for instance, just the
way that he's approaching this US
economy in the tail end of his tenure.
>> Yeah, I I do think he was, you know,
rather um optimistic. um you know, one,
he's coming to the end of his term. So,
he wants, as he said, his legacy is he
wants to hand off a a good economy,
solid economy, and and lower inflation,
and and that's essentially what the the
Fed's forecasts are. Um they do line up
with ours, too. I would say that we are,
you know, on the optimistic side that
growth will improve. We'll get more
balanced growth next year. Um but, you
know, some of that is coming from fiscal
policy. we're going to get um quite a
bit of stimulus starting in the first
quarter. You know, tax refunds could be,
you know, 50 billion um and then
additional business incentives that are
baked into the one big beautiful bill.
Uh plus the Fed has eased rates, you
know, that starts to work through the
system a bit as well. Um and I think we
get past this peak uncertainty, right?
We know that not just the tariffs and
immigration changes, but the uncertainty
around that really weighed on economic
activity. I think we get past that next
year and things start to loosen up. The
risk is the labor market though. So that
there you could see a little bit of
weakness persisting. Um but I think
those refund checks do help to boost
consumer spending.
>> Kathy, how do you expect inflation to
progress in 2026 as we think about
things like wages and rents? Do you
think that there could be a downside
surprise potential to inflation as we
move through the year?
>> Well, good morning Cameron. Um, great
question. So, um, yes, we we do see, um,
housing inflation, so that's rents to
continue to trend lower and and we think
other services inflation is is on a in a
downward path. Um, we do look for goods
prices to continue to edge a bit higher.
You know, the tariff impact I think is
still going to feed through. U, but we
see that peaking, you know, somewhere
around, you know, the start of the
second quarter. So again, not too
different from what the Fed uh and Cher
Powell painted. We think it peaks and
starts to trend lower. We just think
overall the tariff impact has been more
moderate. Um and and you do get that
disinflation for the service side, which
is really, if you think about it, that
comprises the largest share of measured
prices.
>> Kathy Bastansky of Nationwide, thank you
so much for being with us. Cameron, I
turn this to you. Do you think that
right now the CPI report or non-farm
payrolls is more important this week?
Well, I think non-farm payrolls is far
more important for the Fed because they
have told us that they will look through
any kind of stickiness within CPI on the
good side of things because of tariffs
being considered not transitory but a
one-time impact.
>> Transitory transitory. Yeah. So, but I I
think the important thing on inflation
is that if we look at those big
components as Kathy was mentioning,
you're still seeing wages look like
they're pointing lower. Look at the
quits rate that typically leads wages.
You have continued downward pressure in
observable rents which suggests that
that shelter component is moving lower.
So certainly that could help. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Well, thank you so
much as always for being with us. Coming
up next hour, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax
and Woods, Henrietta Trace of Veta
Partners, Chiatti Bar Roage of TD
Securities, and Russ Kri of Black Rockck
as we see markets melt up to close the
last full trading week of 2025. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
The Fed is not going to solve the labor
market.
>> This concern that the Fed has about the
weakness in the labor market, I think
it's a bit overdone.
>> The Fed is well aware of the fact that
inflation remains a very sizable
problem. There's certainly a risk here
that you could see inflation that's a
bit more sticky. economic surprises
keeps us in this scenario.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. A busy end to the year
with traders preparing for a stacked
week of economic data and policy
decisions with markets searching for
that holiday meltup as investors shake
off AI skepticism and growth fears. The
focus now turning very much to the
delayed non-farm payrolls report out
tomorrow. David Gura here alongside me.
And there really is this question, are
we looking at a labor market that's
softening just enough to keep the Fed in
play to keep that bullish spirit going.
>> What's good is bad, what's bad is good,
to quote Mike Wilson or to to borrow a
phrase from him going forward here. No,
I think it's a it's a fascinating thing
to watch. We get this data. It's been
long delayed tomorrow. CPI data coming
this week as well. Uh talk about the the
relative quality of that, but I think
it'll be interesting. We'll put that Fed
meeting in a new kind of new relief once
it happens.
>> Yeah. And watch that unemployment rate
that we get tomorrow as well. We also
get CPI that comes out on Thursday. We
also get a smattering of Fed speak
whether it's Chris Waller, whether it's
John Williams, whether it's Bostic. Uh
we get some earnings and then of course
we get all of these policy decisions
from the ECB, from the Bank of England,
from the Rick's Bank, from the Norris
Bank. And it raises the question, have
we seen the end of the global easing
cycle and are we entering something
different as the Bank of Japan
potentially on deck to hike rates?
>> There's that. There's the AI story of
course you say investors are shaking it
off. I candidly wonder if maybe they're
postponing uh sort of the apprehension
or pessimism they might have to the new
year. Want to end this week, this full
trading week with with a bang going into
the holiday season. Um again, I I I do
think we're at this kind of very
fascinating moment here. Perhaps more
fascinating than a lot of investors
thought the tail end of December going.
>> Well, you know, this year has been one
of roller coasters, has been one of
narrative roulette, has been one of
tosses.
Pick your metaphor. It has been it it
has been a long year and we are entering
the final stretch and we're entering it
with a positive tone. Right now you're
seeing S&P futures up about a half a
percent as people look to uh possibly a
brighter future as you were talking
about. We also get some earnings from
Lara and Nike and FedEx. We also have
currency space. Watch this uh sort of
dollar weakening trend that we had been
seeing that seems to be reasserting
itself slowly as the euro climbs just a
bit against the dollar 11750. 10-year
yields actually getting a bit of a bid
now in through 416 4.1587%
and gold after more than a 65% rally on
gold. You are seeing an inflection
higher of more than a percent in early
trading. Coming up this hour, Sarah Hunt
of Alpine Sax and Woods as Wall Street
shakes off some AI alarm. Henrietta
Trees of Aveda Partners as President
Trump's approval rating slides and Russ
of Black Rockck as bond investors eye
key economic data. We begin this hour
with stocks trading near record highs
once again after Friday's AI pullback.
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxs and Woods
writing, "We think this illustrates a
level of concern from investors that
there is too much spending on the
horizon and not enough cash flow to fund
it." Sarah joins us now for more. Sarah,
wonderful to see you. Thank you for
being here.
>> Good morning. It's great to be here.
>> So, is it enough fear? Is it enough
skepticism to make you actually
interested in AI once again or does it
need to go a little bit further?
>> Well, it certainly seemed like enough
last week. I mean, there were some big
moves last week, and I don't think the
market I mean, you look at Broadcom's
earnings and the numbers themselves were
very good. It's back to the expectations
problem and the second derivative
problem, which Cameron just mentioned,
which is what happens when you're still
spending a lot of money, but you're not
spending it quite as fast as you were.
And the more you spend, the bigger that
the problem of law of large numbers
comes in. And can I go 10% on every 10%
or 20% every year? Every year. And I
think that's an issue. And now people
are starting to question where's that
money coming from? And it wasn't that
question didn't happen in the beginning.
And you've got some real issues with
companies that used to be cashri now
getting more asset heavy. And I think
that that's a little bit absorption
issue for investors right now. But have
we gone a little too far with this with
the idea that Microsoft and Google
really are going to face some sort of
insolveny risk or some sort of serious
existential question because they're
borrowing a bit from the bond market,
right? I mean, have we sort of thrown
the baby out with the bathwater, to use
John Sulfus' term, given the fact that
people seem skeptical more broadly of
the promise that they embraced two weeks
ago?
>> I think that that is just indicative of
what we've been living with for the last
several years out of the pandemic, which
is narrative shifts every day. And yes,
the pessimism gets wildly bad and then
it gets wildly fantastic again. And this
is why I wouldn't say that this is a a
moment where you have to go, "Oh my
goodness, we have to change everything."
thing, but you have to think about what
who else might benefit and how that's
going to go. And I actually think that
even the story about the CDS for Oracle,
I think that's much more about hedging
the stock than it is about actually
thinking that Oracle is not going to pay
its bonds back in the end. So I think a
lot of this is the mechanics of what's
that how that spend is going to come
about. And I don't think it's really
challenging the fact that money is going
to get spent.
>> I don't want to say that group think is
great, but I want to pick up on what you
just said there, which is we have all of
these narrative shifts, dueling
narratives. What does that say to you
just about conviction investors
conviction in this not not just this
trade but in the prospects of AI
generally?
>> It is difficult to have because it's
hard. I mean it's the conviction that AI
is going to be a big thing. It's going
to make a lot of changes I think hasn't
changed. What those changes are going to
be who is going to benefit from those
changes and how fast they're going to be
implemented seems to be a big part of
the current concern. It was easier to
say at the beginning of the year we see
a ton of spending on infrastructure.
There's still going to be a ton of
spending on infrastructure, but now that
that's getting questioned, is that the
peak of infrastructure spend discussion?
Now, do we have to look at use cases and
who's using it and how they're using it?
And is this going to improve margins?
Because in the end, that's what it all
comes down to. Is is it going to make
people more money? Because if it isn't,
then it is going to raise earnings, then
it's less exciting than if it is going
to raise earnings.
>> It's December. I'm in a retrospective
mood. Perhaps you are as well. You
mentioned that that question wasn't
being asked at the beginning, which was
how is all this going to be paid for? Is
it going to be cash? Is it going to be
debt? What do you make of that in
hindsight now? the fact that people
weren't wrestling with those questions
to to begin with.
>> I think with every big investing
enthusiasm, there is a willingness to
suspend belief about whether or not and
how things have to happen to get to the
point where everyone's excited about.
And I think that it doesn't mean that we
won't suspend that disbelief again,
right? So there's going to be some
technological changes. I don't see how
you get the molecules and the electrons
to as many data centers as we have. So I
think that there will be changes and
those changes are going to occur in ways
that are right now difficult to parse.
So you don't know who's going to win and
who's going to lose there. I think it
was very clear at the infrastructure
beginning who was the winners and now
it's like okay who's going to win now
and are the winners really over or is
that just something that isn't going to
grow as fast?
>> Yeah. The conversation over the weekend
was you almost need bubbles to fuel
technological advancement. I mean I know
that that sounds really strange and
perverse but there is a sort of element
of you need that enthusiasm to finance
absolutely everything. Is there sort of
this feeling that you need to see the
broadening out in the trade, the idea
that other companies benefit from AI to
keep the AI machine chugging, right?
That in order for people to justify
valuations where they are in the big
tech giants, you need to see
participation on a broader scale.
>> I think you absolutely need to see that
participation. And I think that that was
a question even earlier in this year and
the beginning at the end of last year,
which was who's going to use this? And
then Walmart came out and said a few
things about how it was helpful for
margins and a other companies came out
and said yes we can use it this way and
it's going to be h and that sort of
solved the short-term problem but longer
term that has to broaden out and that
has to be and this is also the question
about small caps. Can they use this to
make some margin improvements because
the small cap earnings revolution was
supposed to happen two years ago and
then last year and then this year and is
that really going to come through and I
think all of those things are very
important as we go forward and where
valuations are right now it's even more
important. This is where the economy
starts to matter again. This is where
all of a sudden when we were talking
about how anything related to AI could
be in its own universe and the economy
could keep sort of dragging along and
basically being in a recession if it
weren't for that AI investment. At what
point can you see this expansion, this
broadening out unless you see economic
data like what we're going to be getting
this week really pick up? It's
interesting because I think that the
government shutdown has not only made
the data that's current difficult to to
see what happened just recently, but it
also may have shifted some activity into
next year. So, it's going to be
interesting to see that you do have to
see an economy that keeps chugging
along. If it doesn't, you're going to
have a problem. There's no question that
that's going to be an issue. That's an
issue for earnings. Earnings lead to
valuations and that's the circle that
investors are looking at.
>> Speaking of circles, let's talk about
circular investment and your sort of
thoughts on that right now. Now, I mean,
we can't have this conversation about AI
without going back to that. And I'm
curious how worrisome that is to you.
Have you been sufficient? Have your
worries been significantly or or
sufficiently assuaged by these companies
saying that it's not a big deal.
>> I'm not sure that I can say one way or
the other. It's definitely not a big
deal or it's a huge big deal. I know
that in 2000 there were a lot of issues
with vendor financing. It was quite
simple, right? The companies were
selling stuff.
>> Can we say circular deals and vendor
financing are the same thing? I don't
think that you can because I think that
there are some some of the some of the
players in that circle have much more
cash than they did before. So last time
it was vendors financing who didn't have
the cash to companies who didn't have
the cash. Now there is cash in the mix
and there's quite a bit of cash and
that's where you're seeing the have and
have nots on the tech side of who's
cashri and who's not and who's who are
people concerned about whether or not
they're going to raise money or not.
Again, I don't think that Oracle
anyone's concerned that it's going to go
bankrupt, but I think that there are
concerns about overburdening balance
sheets right now.
>> Um, Lisa brought us to the economy. Let
me go back to that. Sorry to pull us
away from that there just for a moment.
But I'm curious, how do you think about
growth in in the year ahead? Are you are
you to borrow a phrase from from Peter
Sanguin not sanguin about it or or are
you feeling like prospects are good,
things are going in the right direction?
>> I think it's tough because the K-shaped
economy is a real thing. The people who
are spending the most money are the
people who have the most money. The
lower-end consumer is not doing well. a
lot of the companies that track that are
not doing well. And I think it's going
to be that's really a question now. How
much have we overstated jobs, right? So,
so in Pal's conference, he talked about
some of those overstatements and maybe
instead of generating jobs, we're losing
jobs every month. How much is that
really occurring? What can we see and
what do wages look like? Because all of
those things matter. It's it's great
that the high-end can spend, but you
really need for the full economy to chug
along. You need you need broader
participation. Yeah. which is a reason
why everyone's watching and hoping for
this broader participation in the equity
space. Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Woods is with us for the hour. I'm so
pleased to say and honestly this is part
of the reason why people are saying
you're seeing mergers and acquisitions
and things of that nature because there
is this broadening out. We just saw a
40% increase in transactions and
announcements in for global M&A and
people expect that only to continue
>> and we were talking a little bit about
with Cameron in the last hour just that
sense that there this might be a moment
for IPOs that we haven't had in a while.
So yes, M&As and I think public
offerings as well.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg brief. National
Economic Council head Kevin Hasset
saying he'd consider President Donald
Trump's policy opinions if picked to
lead the Federal Reserve. Hasset was
responding to questions about Trump's
comment on Friday that he should be able
to make recommendations on rates set by
the Fed. Hasset is one of the front
runners to replace Jay Powell as Fed
chair next year. Elsewhere, talking
about IPOs, SpaceX starting the process
of selecting bankers for its IPO. The
Wall Street Journal is reporting that
investment banks are scheduled to make
their initial pitches this coming week
in what is known as a bakeoff. SpaceX's
CFO reportedly told staff that whether a
listing will happen and when it might
take place remain highly uncertain. An
$800 billion bakeoff. Meanwhile,
Zootopia 2 is officially the highest
grossing Hollywood release of the year.
Disney's Animalpacked animated sequel
made $1.13 billion globally after 20
days in the theater, overtaking uh the
hall of Disney's live action Lilo and
Stitch. It is the seventh biggest
animated film in history and may I'm
just suggesting may have gotten a boost
from the fact that it was really cold
out. I mean, I'm just saying.
>> Have you seen it? You haven't seen it?
>> I haven't seen it. Have you seen it? I
mean, but like think about it. I mean,
if the kids were a little bit younger, I
mean, I think that you'd be looking for
activities. I think it would be great.
Meanwhile, up next, the conflicted
consumer. Consumer sentiment right now
is lower than anyone would like. People
look at their wallets and see they're
doing better, which is why we have the
biggest Black Friday ever. And so the
sentiment will catch up with the
reality.
>> Henrietta Tracea Partners joins next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
a reprisal perhaps of that rotation that
we had been seeing in the past couple of
weeks. Today the Russell 2000 is the
outperformance although off some of the
earlier highs up almost 7/10en of a
percent on the futures right now. S&P
futures up a little less than a half a
percent similar kind of move on the
NASDAQ. The why behind this potentially
is the everything meltup rally that
includes the participation of the bond
space 210s and 30s. You are seeing
yields lower as people look to economic
data throughout the week. The potential
for the Fed to cut maybe even as soon as
January 3.5%
on the 2-year. You have seen that steady
drip with expectations for Fed rate cuts
high. On the long end, less so. Yes, you
are seeing about a two basis point
decline, but that yield curve steepening
very much reasserting itself with
30-year yields back at 4.83%. 83%.
Meanwhile, gold, check this out,
climbing back to all-time highs so far
this year. More than a 65% rally in the
precious metal and continuing to climb
back toward all-time highs. Is this
because of dollar debasement? Is this
because of haven fears in the face of
growth concerns. Something to debate for
uh the ongoing future. And frankly,
under surveillance this morning, it is
the conflicted consumer.
Consumer sentiment right now is lower
than anyone would like. But, you know,
we find that that very often happens
during a government shutdown. People
look at their wallets and see they're
doing better, which is why we have the
biggest Black Friday ever. And so, the
sentiment will catch up with the
reality. The money that we're talking
about is like real money. So, so for
groceries, it went from 400 a month to
525 a month under Biden. So, that's like
an extra more than $1,000 a year you
have to spend on groceries.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
telling the Wall Street Journal he's
unsure his economic policies will lead
to midterm wins. An NBC News poll
showing the president's approval rating
down to 42% as economic concerns weigh
on Americans. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, can you
talk a little bit about the evolution of
President's Trump's President Trump's
approach when it comes to talking about
affordability?
>> Yeah, hey Lisa. Good morning. Well, we
have to keep in mind that it was really
a slew of election losses for
Republicans in November that put this
White House on the defense when it comes
to higher cost of living as the polling
and the data has repeatedly shown that
these concerns are really resonating
with voters. And we've seen President
Trump sort of evolve on the issue. At
first, he was calling affordability a
Democratic hoax, and he has been touting
his policy proposals, but now he's
saying that it's going to take a little
bit more time for them to work through
the economy. as we've heard some of his
advisers uh mirror these same uh
sentiment points as well. You heard the
NEC director Kevin Hasset there talk
about consumer sentiment which yes while
slightly improved is still hovering near
record lows as some consumers have
pulled back while others particularly
higher income households continue to
power the economy. I also think it's
worth mentioning in that NBC poll we're
seeing President Trump's support erode
among Republicans too. This is a
bipartisan issue and the White House is
really going to start to feel the
pressure even more when it comes to the
issue of health care because it appears
very likely that we are going over the
so-called Obamacare cliff. Lisa, the
House of Representatives is set to vote
on a healthc care package this week
after the Senate failed to advance any
legislation last week, but it does not
address those expiring Affordable Care
Act premium tax subsidies that could see
millions of Americans face higher
premiums. And at this point, even if
that does pass the House, it doesn't
seem likely that it's going to pass the
Senate because there is only one week
left in the legislative session for this
year. And then lawmakers are heading out
of town for the holidays and they're not
expected back here in Washington until
at least January 5th.
>> Tyler, what is the the president's plan
or the plan for the president, maybe is
a better way of putting it. We saw him
go to Pennsylvania last week, deliver
this big speech, talk about
affordability among other economic
issues. Are we going to see more events
like that? Is he comfortable talking
about this? Is he under pressure to talk
about it more? How does he engage with
this issue of affordability in the
economy running up to the midterms?
>> Well, he's definitely under pressure to
talk about it more. In fact, we heard
from President Trump, David, on the
campaign trail in Pennsylvania last week
saying that his chief of staff, Susie
Wilds, has told him that he's going to
be making a lot more of these
appearances. We know that he's very
comfortable on the campaign trail. But
while that speech last week, our
understanding was, was expected to be
focused solely on the economy, we also
heard him veer into some of those other
topics that do well with his base,
including immigration. We spoke last
week about him talking about the auto
pen and potentially even looking into
how that impacts Federal Reserve
nominees. So, it's going to be a a issue
for this administration uh that's going
to keep coming up as his policy
officials want to keep him on topic when
it comes to the economy and urge voters
to have some more patience when it comes
to their policies. And David, I'll
quickly mention that we continue to hear
this White House put out new policy
proposals. For example, last week,
President Trump touting new
investigations into the food supply
chain aid for farmers. And of course,
one of those big ones that he keeps
touting but would need Congress's
approval, the potential for any tariff
rebate revenue checks.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much as
always for that. Henrietta Trees of Veta
Partners joins us now for more.
Henrietta, how do you sort of view this
interview in the Wall Street Journal in
particular with President Trump where
he's saying that people just haven't
felt the ramifications or the benefits
from some of his policies? Will that
actually make any headway early 2026?
>> Yeah, that's absolutely true. The one
big beautiful bill went into effect
immediately for corporations. Indeed,
we've seen that corporate tax revenue
has dropped by about a third into
federal coffers this year. That's
because of the tax preferences that went
out very quickly after they passed that
bill on the corporate side. But the
individual side is backend loaded and
starts in the new year when the tax
filing season starts. So, when you think
about the odds of a reconciliation bill
2.0, know, for example, or the $2,000
tire rebate checks, for example, that
requires another act of Congress. And as
far as the White House is thinking about
it, and indeed, when I talk to
Republican staff on the House and Senate
side, they're saying, you know, we
already did the individual tax cuts, you
just haven't seen them yet. Um, so when
Kevin has comes out and says 2026 is
going to be a boon year for the consumer
and individuals, it's because the tax
preferences that hit the individual side
of the docket really start in the new
year. So, if you are, you know, really
looking forward to the salt deduction,
that's coming for you. Um, there's a
really small segment of the economy
that's on the no taxes on tips, no taxes
on overtime piece. That all starts in
the new year. And they're hoping that
that's going to be enough to overcome
the continued hit of tariffs, the
continued negative narrative around
affordability and the high cost of
living, housing, healthcare going up by
$1,000, etc. Um, we'll see.
>> Henrietta, as you talked to staffers on
the hill, I'm curious what they want
this president to to be doing. So you
lay out uh very clearly sort of the
benefits that'll you know be very
evident I imagine to the American public
here come come in the new year. Um what
do they make of his emphasis on
immigration on foreign policy him not
talking about affordability? Um what
would they like him to be doing more and
and what's the reaction to him not doing
more on that front?
>> It's a real mixed bag with the same
answer. Get President Trump on the
campaign trail. And for Republicans,
they really want to see that because the
majority of the new voter turnout of the
last decade of sort of the MAGA base,
they're here for President Trump.
They're not here for your average
run-of-the-mill rank and file
Republican. So, those members really
want President Trump to come to their
district, come on the campaign trail.
You know, they would have liked to see
him more in Tennessee, for example, a
couple weeks ago, um to boost the
numbers because he is a turnout
generating machine. And there's a lot of
anxiety on the Republican side about
going into a midterm election cycle
where the president himself who is
highly popular with the Republican base
and MAGA voters is not on the docket.
Those voters tend to not show up in a
midterm which is why you saw such a
shellacking for the Republican
conference in 2018. They don't want to
see a repeat of that. So they really
want Trump to get on the campaign trail,
come rally their voters and get the
turnout machine. Unfortunately, that's
what Democrats also want because they
know that Republican voters that are
supportive of President Trump are more
likely to stay home. And the majority of
Americans now have a negative view of
the Republican party's handling of the
state of the economy, inflation, prices,
housing, and healthcare. And those are
the top five issues of voters going into
the midterm cycle. So, Democrats
similarly want President Trump to be
front and center. So, uh, it's really a
tough road to hoe, uh, for the
Republican conference and for President
Trump in particular. He's got to get out
there. He's got to talk about
affordability, but the more he talks
about it, the more it helps Democrats.
So, it's it's sort of a catch22.
>> Good morning, Henrietta. So, what of of
all those things that you mentioned, it
seems to me that one of the most
important things to try to nail down
right now is healthcare because you
can't really change a rise in price
levels. whatever you do about further
height doesn't matter as much as
changing what's going to happen now with
those subsidies and this is a train
wreck that's been coming and pushed off
and pushed off and pushed off. Is there
any do you think that they can get
something done in a time frame that's
going to be meaningful and do you think
that there's enough bipartisan anything
because everybody is going to be
affected by this? How does that look in
your opinion?
>> Yeah. Um I'm not shy about making
projections. There's no chance that they
fix Obamacare before the end of the
year. So we're going off the cliff. Um,
to put it into perspective, that's 22
million people that are going to be hit.
Four million people will lose their
insurance. If you're 60 years and older,
your premiums are going up by almost
$1,000 in the new year. That's going to
happen. There is this period of time
between January 5th and January 30th
where they could find a solution. Our
odds are pretty slim. My colleague
Spencer Pman is our healthcare expert
and he's now down to 25% that we get any
2-year, one-year extension of the ACA
subsidies. And you can hear it from
Republicans in the United States Senate
who saw this train wreck coming as you
rightly point out and consider this, you
know, a subsidy that needs to expire. We
have a $ 38 trillion debt load in the
United States. Let's cut this and make
sure that it is not extended.
Unfortunately, when American consumers
look at Republicans speak to the
healthcare issue, we're now on year 16
of not having a an alternative to
Obamacare. So that leads to an erosion
of trust within voters of Democrats and
Republicans alike around the entire
concept of healthcare for the Republican
conference. Former Speaker Boehner had
the best quote the other day. He
basically said, "I've been in all these
meetings with Republicans for a decade
now and we've never all been on the same
page." And so as long as that's the
case, you're not going to see a fix. Um,
and we'll go into the new year without
one.
>> Henry Traveda Partners, wonderful to
hear from you as always. Thank you so
much. And Sarah, this raises a question
about how much stimulus some of the tax
cuts will actually be if they're offset
by increases in healthcare premiums.
>> It is one of the biggest issues I think
that we face as a country is the fact
that you have this very opaque
healthcare system. It's very difficult
to understand how everything is priced,
how everything gets paid for. And I
think that to Henry at his point, the
trust is gone in people getting it fixed
by the government. And the problems that
we have have only gotten worse. They
have not gotten any better. And I think
the assumptions behind Obamacare did not
work out and instead of coping with that
as they happened, they've just been
pushed and pushed and pushed and it's
going to lead to potentially another
January fight that could end up with a
January shutdown. Coming up, we're going
to be speaking with two Jiadia Baraj of
TD Securities as we await three big
central bank decisions this week. Plus,
Yhierra Anend with your morning movers.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
A massive week to end 2025, the full
trading week of this year. Really, it's
the last one. And we get, of course,
non-farm payrolls, we get CPI, we get
some earnings, we get some rate
decisions. Right now, people taking it
all in stride, although reducing some of
the enthusiasm from earlier in the
session. S&P futures up 4/10en of a
percent. You are seeing that dollar
weakness continue to uh pervade the FX
cross. Euro dollar at 11754.
And you that bid into bonds does
continue. 10ear yields down by almost
three basis points. 4.1587
rounded to the fourth decimal point.
Take a look at gold rising back to
all-time highs. 1.1% gain right now. Uh
climbing there after more than a 65%
rally so far this year. Two hours away
from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with the onra.
>> Hi Lisa. We are seeing Micron shares
rising nearly 2% in the pre-market on
some sellside action ahead of earnings
this Wednesday. Wedbush raising their
price target from 220 to $300,
maintaining their outperform rating. And
what they're saying is that stronger
memory market conditions have set up
Micron to benefit from higher average
selling prices than anticipated. I will
also note Micron shares are up some 180%
year to date. So quite the run there.
Meanwhile, Service Now not having the
same luck. Shares are falling 4.4%.
Honor reporting that it is in talks to
buy the cyber security startup Armis in
a deal that could be valued at as much
as $7 billion, a price tag that
Bloomberg Intelligence says seems
expensive. It has also seen some
pressure due to some sellside action
with Key Bank cutting its rating on
Service Now to underweight. And we end
on the Roomba maker. It has gone
bankrupt. So shares are plummeting down
more than 70% in the pre-market. It
plans to go private after handing over
the reigns to it to to its main Chinese
supplier, its vacuum cleaners.
Autonomous vacuum cleaners were all the
rage at one point, but it has struggled
to keep up amid heightened competition
due to cheaper alternatives hitting the
market. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yara David, didn't
Roomba used to do all the airports?
Wasn't that what happened?
>> I've seen that before.
>> Go around. What happened to that?
>> Novelties, people stepping on them,
crushing them. Yes, mine would have been
all over. Come on, chase them. The dogs
and the kids. Meanwhile, on our radar
this morning, President Trump saying he
should be able to make recommendations
on the Fed's interest rate decisions.
>> The old days that used to happen.
Nowadays, it's sort of they think it
shouldn't happen, but I've done great.
I've made a lot of money. I've been very
successful. I think my voice should be
heard.
>> The president is set to announce his
nominee for Fed chair in the coming
weeks. In an interview with the Wall
Street Journal, President Trump saying
Kevin Hasset and Kevin Walsh are his top
choices. Meanwhile, Alphabet set to book
another sizable paper gain after SpaceX
complete SpaceX completes a tender offer
that effectively values the company at
$800 billion. SpaceX's insider share
sale sitting at $421 a share, marking a
sharp jump in valuation. David, the
numbers get bigger and bigger. This to
me just highlights how much fervor there
is in the private markets and how big
some of these companies are getting
before they have an initial public
offering.
>> Completely agree here as we look ahead
to 2026 as I read our colleague uh Ed
Ledllo's piece about this on over the
course of the weekend. Struck by this
line uh that the IPO would be for
funding an insane flight rate that's a
quote uh for its developmental starship
rocket artificial intelligence data
centers in space in space and a base on
the moon. So I think it's, you know,
it's emblematic also of the gamble or
bet one is making on Elon Musk's vision
and ideas.
>> Yeah. And the idea that we're all going
to go to Mars and potentially find our
new future on Mars. I think that, you
know, let me tell you, it will be hot on
many levels. I wonder as Sarah from your
perspective what this means about
private markets and just how much froth
has been building in the private space
and not necessarily the public one given
the fact that there are huge companies
that would be some of the biggest
companies in the S&P 500 that are
private that are yet to actually come to
the market and are less transparent.
Well, I think that you've had such a
window of the ability of those private
markets to raise money. name and it used
to be that the IPO was the cash out and
now it's almost I mean I wonder if part
of the reason the IPO market is so stuck
is because the public market isn't
willing to accept some of the valuations
that are happening in the private market
right so I think that there is a tension
there and it will be interesting to see
how the SpaceX progresses that is one of
those companies like you're talking
about that's had this huge growth and
these huge valuations and yet there's no
sort of marktomarket on the public side
I think that there is a lot of money
that's been chasing both private credit
and private equity And there is a
mismatch in some cases I think between
the valuations
>> and this is something that has been the
reason behind some of the private equity
firms and the lack of uh some of the
exits that we've seen because of this uh
mismatch in valuations. Meanwhile, the
Wall Street Journal reporting 68% of
CEOs plan to spend even more on
artificial intelligence in 2026 despite
no meaningful investment returns. An
annual survey of more than 350 public
company CEOs finds a majority believe AI
will increase their entry level and
senior leadership headcounts. The survey
also highlighted, and Sarah, I'd love
your thoughts on this, the fact that
investors expect it to take less than 6
months for you to really start seeing uh
much more profitability from the AI
investment. CEOs saying it will take
much longer than six months to see
profitability from some of these
investments. So, how do we understand
that? So on the CEO side, you can
certainly say maybe that's part of the
underpromise and overd deliver. On the
other hand, you can also say that
investors are always expecting things to
happen much faster than they actually
have. And I think that that's part of
the problem with some of the valuations
is that they run up so fast and if you
don't start to see something, then you
get that pullback and that narrative
shift. And I think that that's one of
those big tensions around AI that we're
all waiting for. But even small
incremental positive coming out of
industry that says yes, this is working.
I think people will just extrapolate and
they won't worry about the timing. But
you need to see some of that happen
because if there's nothing to
extrapolate from then I think you have a
problem.
>> It has to be more than
>> Yeah. I keep going back to like the
plasticity of the promise of of AI that
companies say something's going to
change or happen but we don't know what
that is in tangible terms and we had
some fun last week with this Disney
announcement and the fact that you know
maybe the great promise here is that we
get a 15-second video with Mickey Mouse.
I don't know if that's going to hold
water going forward. So I think that's
what it's going to take now is sort of a
broader rethinking of what exactly the
promise is going to be here.
>> An entire energy plant devoted to making
Mickey Mouse what we
>> speak your name in a 15 second sound
bites. Turning to currencies the dollar
facing four straight weeks of losses
ahead of a busy slate of data and three
central bank decisions. Jotti Brad of TD
Securities writing, "We expect Euro
dollar to head toward 118 by the end of
the year on a turn in dollar sentiment
and weak payrolls reports. We're almost
there now. Jaydi joins us now for more.
Ja, thank you so much for being with us.
This is sort of the big question heading
into the first three months of next
year. Do we see the same kind of dollar
weakening that we saw to start 2025 on
the heels of a kind of similar dynamic?
>> Uh, thank you so much for having me. I
think that's a very important question.
In fact, we are off consensus and
calling another five to six% weaker move
in the dollar by middle of next year.
And I think that also hinges on the fact
that, you know, there's been a lot of
talk of AI capex. You were just on that,
you know, conversation a second ago, but
there have been no tangible results like
you said. What that means is that the
Fed's mandate is not what headline GDP
is doing because of all of the capex
investment we're seeing. The Fed's
mandate is the labor market, which is
not being propelled up. The majority of
the sectors outside of tech are not
seeing any gains, any tangible gains yet
from all of this. The Fed's mandate at
the end of the day is labor market. They
will have to keep cutting interest rates
if we don't see any strength. We have
payrolls tomorrow which is going to be
very important release. In fact, we
expect the October payroll to show
contraction of 60K which then rebounds
into November. But that does not paint a
very good picture of the labor market.
>> So this is the difficulty right now for
me to understand the FX market which has
been highly confusing and basically
stagnant for a while because everybody's
equally confused.
>> Is it ever not you know I mean honestly
the yen is fascinating. There has been
some really interesting interest rate
driven differentials. But there is this
issue now. Are we talking about growth
differentials? Are we talking about
interest rate differentials? Are we
talking about a Fed that's cutting
rates? Are we talking about a US economy
that still is growing faster than in
Europe or in elsewhere? So, how much
does the growth rate supersede the
interest rate cycle?
>> Sure.
>> Uh you're absolutely right. Currencies
are fascinating. They're the most macro
asset class there. They move on any and
everything on any single day. It's both
frustrating but, you know, also exciting
at the same time. I think it's about
both, but it's all about relative to
what our market expectations. The US in
terms of nominal GDP will still be
stronger than the rest of the world. But
in the first half of next year, we still
have the US growing below potential. So
obviously in terms of nominal GDP, the
US is the largest economy in the world.
There's no good alternative to US talks.
But it's all about relative to
expectations. Is US growing at the place
it was in the last 3 years when we had
this US exceptionalism trade and
narrative? Definitely not. and on the
interest rate channel which is become
increasingly more important. The Fed is
the only central bank out there where
where risks are more to cuts on the
downside whereas we're not we're now
talking about hikes at other places that
is also going to keep that you know
downward pressure on the dollar in at
least the next six months to come.
>> Um Lisa has pointed this out already but
I'll ask you just this is not a quiet
week. There's so much central bank news
this week and I saw Goldman Sachs noting
central banks in the Euro area, the UK,
Norway, Sweden, Japan, Mexico,
Indonesia, Hungary and Czech Republic,
Russia, Taiwan, Thailand, Colombia and
Chile all scheduled to meet this week.
>> How do you look at them holistically and
what's the lesson we can take away from
the decisions that are going to be made
this week?
>> I think definitely very exciting. Uh I
think the two big focus points uh which
could be market moving uh in our purview
are the BOJ and the Bank of England both
in opposite directions. Exactly. We
expect the Bank of Japan to hike uh
after a very long time which should
provide some relief to the Japanese yen.
We've all been waiting for that. It's
been stuck in very weak ranges ever
since the political turmoil started. But
at least if the pay let's say the
payroll reports tomorrow come on the
weaker side which leads markets to price
in more Fed cuts compared with the BOG
hiking. I think interest rate
differentials can really push dollar yen
back towards 150 provided some reprieve
and the other interesting one is the BOE
because they are still on the cutting
path in line with the Fed definitely not
as as aggressively as the Fed in fact I
think they will try to signal a very
hawkish signaling because they're not
ready to cut at at consecutive meetings
in fact I think they will signal that
we're done but don't expect us to keep
cutting from here onward so those are
the two ones which you know we have our
eyes on
>> you didn't mention the ECB is proudly
uninteresting so they done a great job
of telegraphing sort of what they're
doing.
>> They're done. Uh I think for the euro
what matters is if they can get the
peace deal. Uh and you know I think
that's the main focus point. ECB is
done. You know they they're not going to
you know talk about either cutting or
hiking. The next move by them is is more
likely than not going to be a hike which
we think is definitely more a second
half of the next year story but they're
very comfortable for now. I think the
main point is what happens with the
Russia Ukraine peace deal. I think
that's going to be very important for
the euro.
So if I you mentioned the yen and this
is one of those currencies that's been
used in a lot of ways that weren't just
about the Japanese currency. What
happens? Are are they going to have to
hike because rates are going up anyway?
I mean what is what do you see going on
there? And how do you see that playing
out over the next 12 months?
>> I think the hikes have become inevitable
for them them at this point. There's a
lot of domestic macro momentum on the
growth inflation and the wages side
which we saw overnight. And also now,
you know, we've had a a new politician
in power who is going to be fiscally
expansive, which is not something that
the currency or the bond market is
liking. So in order to stem currency
weakness and outside of the MOF
intervention, I think the only best
chance for you is to show credible
policy action through a rate hike.
Imagine if the MOF starts intervening
massively here. That's not going to send
a good signal even to the US who have
become very watchful of Japan's
activities. And we know Bessant has been
commenting on BOJ and MOF's decisions a
lot recently. So it doesn't look well
for them. I think the only best chance
they have is to hike interest rates.
>> Well, all currencies seem to have lost
value uh versus the precious metal of
gold so far this year. And just I want
to finish there, especially with gold
prices surging back to all-time highs.
Does this uh raise more concerns for the
currency space that there is this sort
of broader devaluation of fiat currency
that's happening at a time when yeah
we're talking about relative values but
there is this bigger shift that could be
durable. I think we've spoken about the
ddollarization narrative for the last
decade but the only thing is it's it's
happened at a glacial pace. What changed
this year was the perception of the US
dollar as a safe haven which is what
also has led to this bid in gold as the
alternate safe haven let's say which can
also shield you from a lot of the
exogenous shocks we are dealing with
right now obviously the the longer this
extends the uncertainty of policy in the
US with Trump in power with so many ris
risk events supreme court decisions
still pending I think that will likely
keep on a bid on gold and also a
downward pressure on the dollar there is
definitely that the dollarization or
hedge dollar trade which we're seeing
play out.
>> Jotti, wonderful to have you here. Let's
do it again sometime. Great to have you.
Jayatti Baradwaj of TD Securities here
in New York. Meanwhile, a tough weekend
that's left us all reeling. We're
talking a lot about markets and the
economy because that's what we do. But
our thoughts are squarely with the
Jewish community in Australia and the
student community at Brown University.
These shootings shake all of us around
the world. So, we do want to get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. Australia's
government says it will consider
toughening gun laws after a father and
son killed 15 people in the deadliest
terror attack in the country's history.
The mass shooting at a Jewish community
celebration of Hanukkah on Sydney's
Bondi Beach also left dozens injured.
Australian Prime Minister Anthony
Albanesei described the attack as an act
of evil anti-semitism.
Brown University sent students home and
called off final exams for the fall
semester after a shooting killed two
students and injured nine. The shooting
occurred on Saturday in an engineering
building, prompting a shelter in place
order that was later lifted a day later.
A person of interest was detained
yesterday, but he was later released.
Meanwhile, Volkswagen gearing up for its
first production closure in Germany in
its 88-year history. The closure comes
as Europe's largest auto manufacturer is
under pressure due to weak China sales
and demand in Europe, as well as US
tariffs weighing on sales in America.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Up
next, balancing the Fed's dual mandate.
To me, right now, we've got policy
that's right around neutral. It's in
that range of neutral. And when we've
got challenges on both sides of our
mandate, um being close to neutral is
probably the right place to be. Russ of
BlackRock joins us next from New York.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
seeing a lift to markets as we kick off
the last full trading week of 2025. We
are seeing that lift to futures as
people look back to last week and say,
"Let's try to shake off some of those AI
concerns." earns 510 of a percent gain
on the S&P. Dollar weakening taking hold
11755 on the Euro dollar cross. 10-year
yields lowered by about two basis points
to 416 and gold surging back toward
all-time highs up about 1%. Under
surveillance this morning, balancing the
Fed's dual mandate.
To me, right now, we've got policy
that's right around neutral. It's in
that range of neutral. And when we've
got challenges on both sides of our
mandate, um being close to neutral is
probably the right place to be. I would
prefer to be on a slightly more
restrictive stance to help continue to
put pressure on that inflation side of
our mandate. Here's the latest. US
Treasury yields inching lower as traders
await key data for guidance on the state
of the economy. Russ Crochet of Black
Rockck writing, "While the Fed is likely
to temporarily pause in its cutting
cycle, financial conditions remain
supportive for risky assets." Russ joins
us now for more. Russ, great to have
you. Thank you so much for being with
us. So, let's just start there. This
idea that does it matter if the Fed cuts
rates. Are people putting too much
emphasis on this idea of the Fed needing
to ease policy and need to focus a
little bit more on the actual economic
backdrop?
>> Good morning, Lisa. I I think that's
correct. Uh we we have an environment
where whether the Fed cuts once or twice
next year, we can debate that we have a
very accommodative environment when it
comes to financial conditions. You have
an economy that's likely to accelerate
in the first half of the year based on
tax refunds, capital spending. You have
an economy that appears to be benefiting
from a productivity standpoint from AI.
You've got a corporate sector that
continues to produce incredibly strong
earnings and cash flow. So to have
everything hinge on whether the Fed's
going to cut one or two times next year,
I think that sort of misses the point.
>> Russ, I want to ask you about the the
place of bonds and portfolios today,
sort of how you think about that. And I
saw a piece in the Economist a few days
ago indicating the bond market is quiet,
perhaps too quiet. we haven't seen a lot
of volatility therein. Um what what's
the role as you see it here as we round
the corner into 2026?
>> See this is a really interesting
question for a couple reasons. First of
all we we're still in an environment
where really for the first time since
you know the late 2000s you can build a
highquality bond portfolio lean into
credit and spread and get a six six and
a half% yield. Something you were not
able to do for most of last decade. So,
as a source of income, as a source of
carry, bonds make more sense. The other
thing that's happening, which I think is
a little bit of a departure from what we
saw in 2022 and 23 and 24, is that
you're beginning to see some indications
that bonds are once again acting as a
bit of a hedge. In other words, more of
a likelihood of bonds going up when
stocks are going down. I think the
reason for that or one of the reasons is
that while inflation is still somewhat
above the Fed's target we have seen is
that it's become much less volatile than
it was in 21 and 22 and 23 and that drop
in the volatility of inflation giving
investors a bit more confidence. So you
can start to have the conversation again
about whether bonds are likely to act as
somewhat of a hedge as we go into 2026.
>> Are clients eager willing to have that
conversation now? How has the kind of
attitude toward fixed income changed
here in recent months?
>> Well, you know, it's it's interesting.
Certainly, a lot of people uh were hurt
in 22, one of the worst years for the
bond market in record. So, there's still
a little bit of reluctance, but I do
think that the the ability to generate
yield in a portfolio. The fact that
we're still looking at an economy that
is strong in a recession is very
unlikely. uh it argues for having that
portion of your portfolio in bonds that
can provide carry and again if it can
also add a little bit of safety along
with other asset classes such as gold
all in all in our view that leads to a
more robust multiasset portfolio.
>> When you have discussions with clients
do you often talk about the fact that
they are going to want to hold those
bonds until maturity and not watch the
fluctuations on the pricing because
that's one of the things that gets
people more worried. But in the end, if
you can get that yield, you just have to
stick around and take that and not get
too worried about the price fluctuations
when you get those interest rate shifts.
>> I think that's exactly right. And you
know, to be clear, you know, we think
have benefited a lot of our portfolios.
Uh much of the fixed income exposure,
particularly on the credit side, you
know, we're able to buy that several
years ago when spreads much wider. And
really what we've been doing is we've
been holding that credit, holding those
bonds from the portfolio, getting that
carry, getting that tailwind. Another
point, you know, again, we've had three
phenomenal years for equity returns. We
may not quite get to 20% on the S&P this
year, but the reality is this has been
the best three-year stretch since the
late '9s. We do think stocks are going
to head higher next year. We think
earnings are going to power that. It may
not be another year of 20% gains. If you
can get 6, 7% in the bond portion of
your portfolio and do that with a lot
less volatility. We do think that's
going to be attractive for clients.
Would you rather be exposed to the AI
story through credit or through
equities? Right now,
>> I think it's still an equity play. Uh
the reality is you think about where do
you want the convection in your
portfolio, it's on the equity side and
we continue to see even with some of the
recent pullback in AI names, a
phenomenal year for tech, phenomenal
year for a lot of those themes. There's
likely to be more volatility. I think 26
is going to be more of a year where
you're going to have to really think
about stock selection, the industries
you're in, pay attention to valuation,
but by and large, you know, we continue
to believe this is a multi-year,
probably a multi-deade theme. Having
that exposure, the equities in your
portfolio, it gives you that long-term
convexity, gives you that long-term
growth. At this point, are you seeing
concern build in credit space, in the
credit space, in credit markets about
some of the exposure to artificial
intelligence given some of the circular
financing, given some of the higher
degrees of leverage in the likes of Open
AI and related to Oracle?
>> I I think there's definitely concern uh
in general. Obviously, what we've seen
this year is a continued growth in the
capital spending. You know, when you
started the year, I think the
expectation for the four hyperscalers
was they were going to spend around 300
350 billion in capex. That number's only
gone up for the year. It goes up further
for 2026. So, both on the credit side,
but also on the equity side, you're
getting this reasonable concern. If if
these companies are going to spend what,
you know, could easily be half a
trillion dollars on capital spending,
what does the return look like? What
does the timing of that return look
like? So I do think that's a reasonable
concern. We're not overly worried about
credit markets. We think in general
these companies are producing very
healthy amounts of cash flow. But I said
a moment ago, you know, 2026 is likely
to look different uh both in credit and
in equities that it's going to be more
of a year of differentiation. Not simply
you buy AI and go to sleep, but more
really thinking about what parts of that
space, what names you want that exposure
to.
>> Russ and Black Rockck, thank you so much
for being with us. Sarah, has there ever
been a time where you can buy something
and go to sleep?
>> In retrospect,
>> sure. Is there anything right now?
>> Forward. It's very difficult. I mean, we
just put out I just put out a piece on
2026 and looking forward. It was very
difficult to write because it's very
difficult right now to look at what's
going on and say, I know what's going to
happen in 2026. There are so many
variables. There are so many things that
are people are excited about, but then
pull back on. people are looking for and
then you think about how much dark fiber
was laid, how long it took to absorb
that. Are we overbuilding data centers?
We don't know. Are we underbuilding
them? We don't know. There are a lot of
things that we don't know and some of
the again it's always in retrospect you
look back and you go well of course the
AI spend was going to continue so of
course you needed to own all those names
in in big size. What's going to happen
from here is a little bit trickier and I
think that all of us have
to think about that for our clients and
for ourselves and for the market itself.
There is a lot of question. You've had a
big change since 20 since 2008 in the
financial crisis and all of that is just
different now than it was before.
>> Sarah Hunt, wonderful to have you here
as always. Sarah Hunt, chief market
strategist at Alpine Saxon Woods. Coming
up in the next hour, Keith Learner of
Truist, Sutarita Kadali of Forester,
Puja Sriram of Barclays and Allesio
Dongis of Invesco as we head toward a
really busy last full trading week of
2025. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
The market doesn't like uncertainty. It
loves it.
>> The acronym will be as AI.
>> I think the AI story is growing.
>> Next year, I think is really going to be
the year of the AI adopter. There is a
lot going on into next year. We're
positive, but I think there may be some
volatility.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. It's a busy end of the
year with traders preparing for a
stacked week of economic data and policy
decisions. Markets searching for that
holiday meltup as investors shake off AI
skepticism and growth fears. The focus
now turning very much to delayed
non-farm payrolls report out tomorrow.
We get November CPI on Thursday. A slew
of earnings Nike as FedEx and of course
we get University of Michigan sentiment
survey on Friday. David Gura. Honestly,
in this third hour of surveillance, it
seems like people really gearing up to
try to understand the Fed and the Fed
versus AI.
>> Yeah, we get the opportunity to hear
from some Fed policy makers this week as
well. Stephen Myron's going to be
speaking here uh in New York. So, again,
kind of getting a a fuller sense, a more
holistic sense of what the Fed did last
week and people will carry that into the
new year. I think this kind of
conversation about AI continues as well.
>> Well, it's sort of this push pull where
you have the economy that hasn't been
doing fantastically, but it's been
supported by the AI narrative. And
there's a feeling at least in the first
two hours where people were saying you
have to start to see the economy catch
up on some level in order for the AI
promises to really have come to fruition
just because how are you profitable in a
society that doesn't have the money to
pay for it.
>> Yeah. Show me something. Show me what
those promises are in actual effect. And
I think going going back to what the Fed
chair said last week, you detect an
interest in policy makers here, I think,
in kind of reckoning with wrestling with
um what AI is going to actually mean for
this economy going forward.
>> Yeah. And is it going to be the Oracle
story or is it going to be the Google
story? two very different sides of
possibly the same coin. Right now in
markets, you do see a lift across the
board throughout indexes, but you do see
that broadening out that people have
been hoping for to end the year. A ten
of a percent gain on Russell Russell
futures. S&P futures up about a half a
percent. Similar move on the NASDAQ. You
do see a bid into bonds. This is going
to be important, especially heading into
a 20-year auction later this week. It is
coming across the board, but in
particular at the middle of the curve,
the 10-year yield lower by almost two
basis points at 416, although pulling
back from some of the earlier lows. You
are seeing this expectation of a Fed
cutting rates. You did see that yield
curve steepening 30-year yields 4.83%
steepest yield curve going back to 2022.
Coming up in this hour, we've got Keith
Learner of Truist with stocks rising to
start the last full trading week of
2025. Sucha Kadali of Forester looking
ahead to fresh retail data this week and
Puja Rushi of Barclays as investors
await the November payrolls report. We
begin this hour. Stocks are higher as
Wall Street aims to bounce back from
Friday's losses. Keith Lurer of truest
writing, we are still positive tech
longer term, but in the near term there
is a lack of a catalyst for the SEC
sector, so investors will need to be
patient. Investors known for their
patience. Keith joins us now. Keith,
thank you so much for being with us. I
just want to start there. I mean, do you
think that this selloff that we've seen
or underperformance I should say uh
probably putting it more fairly in the
tech sector is something that can
persist for a longer period of time or
is this sort of like an end of the year
uh melt off given how much it's been
outperforming?
>> Yeah. Well, first great to be with you.
I didn't realize it was actually last
full trading week of the year. So,
that's exciting in some ways. Um, so to
your po uh uh point specifically, Lisa,
listen, I still think tech is long-term
leadership, but to your point, we went
up off the lows about 70% versus 35% for
the S&P 500. And now you get all these
different questions as well. So, I just
think it's a a a point where, you know,
that we have to kind of rebuild that
wall of worry, which we're doing, but at
the end of the day, the earnings
momentum for the tech sector is still
the strongest one out there. So I think
in the near term I think the challenge
is what is the catalyst to move this up
because you know we just went through
earning season um people are focused on
obviously Oracle Nvidia comes out with
some news about some more chip selling
to China it's not moving it so I think
it's just maybe a digestion phase and I
think um you know next year at some
point maybe that's three months or six
months from now we'll see money rotate
back into it and when we look
historically at bull markets maybe my
final point here is the leadership of a
bull market tends to endure towards the
end notwithstanding period periodic uh
you know pullbacks and rotations. We're
seeing one of those rotations right now
on this kind of broading theme and I
think that broading theme at least
near-term has a bit more to go.
>> You sound somewhat skeptical of it long
term. Is that correct, Keith? That this
broadening theme maybe is a short-term
blip but not necessarily a 2026 fullear
trend.
>> No, I think you know at least if we were
here a year ago, I think the theme was
very similar about this boarding theme.
It didn't work out. But no, I do think
next year there's there's more of a
reason that we could see more broading.
So I think a lot of times people think
about it's tech or X and in our view it
can be both especially as we have these
sharp rotations but you know the good
news um I I think as we think about the
Eco8 index we were we came into this
year around the 17 multiple we're ending
the year around the 17 multiple and it
it's been mostly earnings growth the key
for next year is is profit margin and do
we see the adoption and the profit
margin start to expand for these 493 but
I think listen near-term we are seeing
some positive action we had industrials
breakout last week. The Eco8 index just
made a 52- week high. Here's an
interesting stat. Um, uh, guys, you
know, the equal index is only up about
4% since the November peak right after
the election. So, almost more than a
year, we're only up 4%. So, no, I think
it has further to go. I just think it
it's both, not either or.
>> There's a tendency to have this kind of
monomomaniacal focus on the the big tech
names, the Magnificent 7 and and the
like. Um do you foresee as you look into
your crystal ball more eagerness to look
overseas in in the year ahead? Of course
it's done markets overseas have done
extremely well uh this year in many
cases. Are you looking more to Europe
for instance in 2026?
>> I don't know that we're looking more but
it's kind of a similar story when we
look around the globe. I just checked
this morning 98% of the markets we track
more than 40 countries around the globe
they're in uptrends defined as above
their 200 day moving averages. So it's
kind of that similar story we just had.
It's like either or no both. We still
have a a tilt towards the US because
that's where the innovation and earnings
are there. And let's you know if we
think about the last year the US
underperformed but that was after you
know in the prior year the US had
outperformed by the most since the 90s
in 2024. So we had a bit of mean in
reversion and all almost all the
increase in international was PE
valuation not earnings and the currency
side. So I think as we move into next
year we had a bit of a revaluation.
currency has come down or the US dollar.
So, I think both will do well. We're
still tilting towards the US on the
margin.
>> We've been kind of threading this needle
over the course of the the three hours
this morning. Mike Wilson's note, Mike
Wilson and Morgan Stanley right about
how we're now firmly back in a good is
bad, bad is good regime. As you look
ahead to this week and the data that
we're going to get, how how are you
thinking? Are you in agreement with Mr.
Wilson?
>> I think the market likes Goldilocks. I
think we want an economy that is still,
you know, kind of chugging along. We
expect a modest uptick into next year uh
with you know with with inflation that
doesn't get out of control which we
don't think it will and interest rates
that remain you know kind of in this
range that has been overall. So I I
would say on the margin you know solid
news is is good news. I don't think we
want either extreme. If it's something
that's really much stronger to the
upside for the economy, that probably
means rates go up and that will hit
maybe valuations. If we see a real
weakening in the in the labor market
continues in this divergence between GDP
data and and labor market, I think
that's problematic as well. So I I
think, you know, we're using analogy for
our outlook, the seven thing in a
stretch. I think we want something kind
of in the middle between those two
extremes. Do you think, Keith, that this
market's fully wrapped its heads around
the idea that we have seen the end of
one of the biggest global easing cycles
ever outside of some sort of recession?
>> You know, it's an interesting question
because it hasn't really come up a whole
lot in conversations as I speak with
investors. So, I think that is, you
know, potentially a risk and I think the
other thing, you know, all all things
come back or all roles lead back to the
10-year Treasury as we think about next
year, we still are positive. We think
the the uptrend deserves the benefit of
the doubt. But going to your point about
central banks, I mean, I think the key
tell for next year and and the risk
factor we'll be watching is the 10-year,
which again seems relatively contained
at this point, but that is a shift and I
think just like this past year, I think
earnings will be the key. Again, we
expect solid earnings and we do expect
those earnings to borne out uh as we
move through 2026.
>> When you talk about earnings, this kind
of leaves us in the same place of yes,
bonds may offer a hedge, but maybe you
don't want that hedge in 2026. maybe
want to be exposed to the equity space
and then on the short end of the yield
curve at a time of yield curve
steepening. I mean how do you look at
that kind of interplay given the fact
that people are expecting enough growth
uh and accommodate a Fed despite that
ongoing growth and this yield curve
steepening that we have seen really
start to reassert itself.
>> Yeah. So overall heading into the year
we do have a a modest tilt towards
equity relative to fixed income and
cash. We're still overweight gold as
well which we've been overweight all
year long. Um and then on the on the
fixed income side, you know, again going
back to the analogy around baseball, we
still look at, you know, fixed income as
that consistent hitter kind of
collecting that coupon, you know, all in
all over the last year where the equity
markets have done pretty well. We are
having, you know, a solid year in fixed
income with, you know, high quality
returning six 7%. Um and I think as we
think about next year, we talked about
there's, you know, there's a lot of
crossurrens. there's a midterm election
year and there's a scenario where the
economy is stronger than expect
expectations or there there's a scenario
where the labor market weakens further
in the latter one you would actually
want bonds. So I think going back to
diversification the kind of the simple
diversification aspect you still want to
have bonds are they at a modestly lower
weight yes but I still think it makes uh
sense but we are pairing you know that
with some exposure to gold still into
the new year
>> let's stick with diversification so
there's just market masonry building the
wall of of worry um as you look beyond
uh tech if you look look beyond big tech
telecommunications as well where do you
see opportunities sector wise here in
the year ahead that might have been
neglected in 2025
>> sure so where we were overweight tech
and communications for most of this past
year and we still are again we're still
positive long term. What we've been
doing is making incremental changes
based on this broadening theme. So uh
you know over the recent months we added
healthc care. You know healthcare is a
sector where just um you know a little
bit of good news can go a long way. I
know it's done better recently but it's
outper I'm sorry it's underperformed the
S&P um by over 50% over the last three
years and that's a historic extreme. So
you just get a little good news that can
go a long way and we're we're seeing
valuations attractive and some better
fundamentals there as well. And then
just last week uh we upgraded
industrials. Uh industrials was a hot
sector early in the year. Since July it
kind of moved sideways only up about 2%.
It just broke to the upside of a five uh
fivemonth trading range. And as as we
think about this economic uptick that we
envision and some of the benefits from
the one big beautiful bill like
accelerated depreciation, we think
that's an area that should benefit as
well. So again, tech, communications now
paired with health care and industrials
and something else we're looking closely
at, not quite yet, not not quite there
to upgrade, you know, financials with
that steeper curve that Lisa mentioned
earlier are act acting very well.
>> Keith Learner of Truist, thank you so
much for being with us. Have a wonderful
holiday season. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here are your Bloomberg briefs.
Nvidia has told Chinese clients it's
evaluating adding production capacity
for its H200 chips after orders exceeded
its current output level. This according
to Reuters. The move comes after
President Trump announced the US
government would allow Nvidia to export
H200 processors, its second fastest AI
chips to China last week. Alphabet set
to book another sizable paper gain after
SpaceX completed a tender offer that
effectively values the closely held
company at about $800 billion. SpaceX's
insider share sale was priced at $421 a
share, which would mark a sharp jump in
valuation from earlier secondary
transactions. That is likely to lift the
carrying value of Google's long-standing
investment in Elon Musk's rocket and
satellite company. Meanwhile, say spare
a thought for Roomba. Roomba maker iRoot
is expected to go private after filing
for bankruptcy. The company, founded by
MIT engineers in 1990, is looking to
hand over control to its main Chinese
supplier. iRoot sold more than 40
million home devices but saw a postcoid
decline due to supply chain issues and
cheaper competition. Wasn't expecting to
see lots of Roombas this morning. Uh but
over the weekend that was very much
front and focus. That is your Bloomberg
brief. Did you ever use Roombas?
>> Um never had a Roomba, but I had friends
who had them and I was admiring of them,
but I somehow knew I didn't know that it
would end this way. And not to say it's
ending, I should say, but um no, I never
went all in and got one.
>> I I actually love the idea, but I never
got one also. But I do think that it
would be great especially if it could do
other things like bring you things.
>> Yeah. Put the coffee on top of it and
have it move around. Yeah.
>> Have a little baby.
>> Maybe that's the future. Maybe this
Chinese company will
>> make it
>> take that information. I don't know.
>> Up next, the morning calls plus such
such Kodali of Forester looking ahead to
fresh retail data this week. That's
coming up next from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
We are, you know, on the optimistic side
that growth will improve. We'll get more
balanced growth next year. we're going
to get um quite a bit of stimulus
starting in the first quarter. You know,
tax refunds could be, you know, 50
billion. I think those refund checks do
help to boost consumer spending.
>> That was Kathy Bastanic of Nationwide
and what's ahead for the consumer as we
get retail sales tomorrow alongside
non-farm payrolls. And on Thursday, we
get of course CPI from November, a check
across the broad economy ahead of the
January Fed meeting. Right now, the
check on markets is broadly positive, up
about a half a percent on the S&P.
Dollar weakness. Watch the space. The
euro gaining about a tenth of a percent,
11755 on the Euro dollar cross. And
yields lower uh but not as much lower as
they were earlier this morning. The bid
driving 10-year yields down to 4.17%
rounded up. Gold on a tear uh pulling
back a little bit, but still back toward
those all-time highs. Time now for the
morning calls. First up, Morgan Stanley
upgrading Hershey to overweight from
Equal Wee. The firm saying the stock
offers rare visibility into significant
earnings growth within staples. So
shares up one and a half percent in
pre-market trading. Up next, JP Morgan
upgrading Dollar General to overweight
from neutral with a price target of
$166. The firm seeing upside, saying
Dollar General is back on offense. Those
shares up 2.6% in pre-market trading.
And finally, Roth Capital Partners
downgrading Costco to sell from neutral.
A rare sell rating from the sell side
citing concerning underlying metrics and
intensifying competitions. Those shares
lower by about 8/10en of a percent
sticking with retail uh October retail
sales data set to provide another look
at the state of the consumer tomorrow.
Suchita Kadali of Forester writing
retail sales have been more positive
than consumer sentiment suggests, but
much of that may be biased by mass and
essential merchants. Suchita joins us
now. So Jita, that's a great way of
framing it because we've been trying to
understand the retail sales data that we
have been getting as well as the
earnings. Is this inflation? Is this
staples? Is this an issue of the higher
income individuals patting out some of
the totals? What's your first read on
just how good retail sales have been?
>> Well, I think that the big story is
really um this K-shaped economy
expression that we're hearing a lot of
now. Um ultimately where we definitely
see strength is certainly with the
affluent consumers and you see that
reflected not only in the stock
valuations which of course um are
certainly padding um the net wealths of
a lot of consumers and empowering them
um to purchase everything from essential
goods to certainly um some of the more
discretionary items as well whether it's
in sectors like automotive or um or
home. But what we also are seeing is
really really low shopper sentiment as
well, consumer sentiment. Um and that's
largely dragged down by um some of the
lower inome consumers, the demographics
that are not in the top 10%.
>> That's right where I want to go. And I I
keep harping on this, but there's
something really funny about that that
we've seen strong retail sales still
yet. Maybe again we'll see them
tomorrow. But all the while there is
this negative sentiment. And I wonder if
you look for like historical analoges,
are there any that come to mind? Is this
a kind of unique new phenomenon? What
does it tell you about maybe the
prospects for consumer spending, retail
spending going forward?
>> Well, this is unusual because typically
consumer sentiment and overall spend are
correlated. So every time we have seen
recessions in the past, um you typically
will have negative consumer sentiment.
But all of the indicators are that the
economy right now is still doing
relatively strongly. Um GDP has been
positive. Um you have unemployment being
relatively low, wages on average being
relatively high. So all of those key
macro indicators are very very strong,
but yet you have very very low consumer
sentiment. And there are some reasons
that have been speculated about. It's
everything from the advent of AI leaving
a lot of people uncertain about the
future. You have um other issues related
to um just even inflation and consumers
feeling that they may not be getting as
much value for their money. We certainly
see this um with a lot of consumer
packaged goods and a lot of essential
goods that consumers are purchasing
where um not only is the are the unit
prices going up, but the amount of value
that the shopper is seeing in a number
of those goods is actually going down.
And that could be one of the reasons
that we're also seeing that negative
consumer sentiment in spite of wages
being higher. As I think about the the
Kshape here and I I wonder sort of what
this part of the K can do. Can it can it
pull up sentiment? Can it can it pull up
can it can it kind of give consumer
spending, retail spending more broadly a
lot of juice or or do you need that like
lower half of the K to be working as
well?
>> Well, the for that for the higher income
consumers to pull everybody up that is
essentially the argument of trickle down
economics, right? And um and
unfortunately that hasn't always proven
to be um the best um economic approach.
What we saw during the pandemic was when
we gave enormous government stimulus to
um the broad economy and just it was a
fantastic experiment in how um being
able to provide stimulus to um the the
the the masses really supported um
economic growth because we saw some of
the fastest growth rates that we had
seen um in in a long long time. And what
that ended up doing is it overheated the
economy to the point that we saw the
inflation numbers that we're now
continuing to try to bring down. Um so I
think that it is somewhat difficult to
say that um the top end of the consumer
demographic is going to single-handedly
pull up the rest of the economy. um we
definitely need more broad um sentiments
of of economic well-being in the
economy, I think, in order to to get
those sentiment numbers up. But then
there's also the other argument that
maybe we shouldn't even be looking at
consumer sentiment as a factor at all
because if it's not correlated to spend,
we should be looking at other things
like maybe housing starts or um
joblessness as better indicators
>> or better or maybe uh fiscal stimulus
which is what some people are expecting
early next year. You were talking about
some of the cash infusions under some of
the postcoid relief plans next year. A
lot of people are saying that what
you're going to get is a huge tax break
and it's going to leave people with a
lot of cash. How are retailers shaping
up to take advantage of that? Clearly,
they're paying attention and there must
be some expectation.
>> Well, retailers try to take advantage of
the cash refunds every year. So, that's
not necessarily a new strategy. Um, the
challenge is that Q1 tends to be a
softer time in general for retailers.
There are fewer sales. Um there are some
exceptions in some seasonal categories
like maybe jewelry in February. Um but
for the most part Q1 isn't a terribly
great time. You have a lot of returns um
that you're processing and a lot of just
exchanges that retailers are seeing
rather than the purchase of new goods.
We really don't see um much more of that
higher year-over-year growth until later
in the year.
>> Such Kodalia of Forester, thank you so
much for being with us. We really
appreciate it. and have a wonderful
holiday season. Let's turn to the
economy. We've got a key week of data on
deck. Bloomberg's Michael McKe joins us
now. Not just data, we also have a lot
of Fed speak. A real focus though here.
How much does some of the data matter
other than non-farm payrolls or really
is it all about the unemployment rate?
>> Well, it's mostly all about the
unemployment rate, but uh we aren't
going to get one for October. So, it
makes it more difficult to interpret
these numbers. We were just talking
about it in the green room here. Uh you
know, exactly what is it going to mean?
The one number we're going to get this
week that will be easy to interpret, but
probably the least meaningful is going
to be retail sales tomorrow because uh
retail sales, we got the September
numbers and these are the October
numbers. So, we'll actually have a
month-to-month comparison and in
September the numbers weren't pretty
good uh just 210% overall and the
control series was down a tenth of 8%.
Now, both of those are expected to
rebound in October, but it's not going
to tell us what happened in November and
give us an idea of what was happening
for the holiday season. So, it's uh it's
going to be the more complete number,
but it's going to be one that helps us a
lot figure out where the economy is.
>> Mike, stay close. I know that you're
going to be with us in just a few
minutes, and we are going to be getting
a little bit of data earlier uh this
morning. We're get Empire Manufacturing
data coming out uh in about five minutes
time. A real question here, David, as we
look out about what to trust given the
fact that the numbers have been messy.
They have been inconsistent. And we just
heard Puas, we just heard uh just this
idea uh from Kadali talking about how
maybe we should ignore sentiment data
given the fact that it hasn't been
reliable
>> and we don't have the continuity of the
series as well, which is another facet
to this too. No, I think it's it's a
fascinating thing to bear watching and
again, we've kind of been through this
period where there's been a lack of
data, there's been delayed data. Uh it's
beginning to we're beginning to get
something toward normaly here. But we've
seen the the Fed proceed soldier through
all of this wondering sort of how policy
makers will proceed. Now we've had this
kind of coloring their the decision that
they made last week.
>> Well, if you're curious about what they
think, we have a number of speakers on
deck including John Williams. Uh of
course uh Chris Waller, we have uh
Steven Myron, we have Raphael Bastic, we
have a host of other speakers who can
give you a sense of just how they feel.
Coming up, Paso Mc Barklay will be
joining us as investors await the
November payrolls. Plus Yhierra Anage
with your morning movers. Shares of
service now falling as they're nearing a
$7 billion deal to acquire Armes. Those
shares lower by about 5.4%. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
A lift the last final uh trading week of
2025. We are seeing stocks broadly
higher led by the small caps up now
about 8/10en of a percent on Russell
2000 futures. S&P futures up by a half a
percent similar on the NASDAQ a bit into
bonds pretty much across the board
although it's fading as the session
grows older. An eye toward some of the
economic data we get throughout the
week. At the long end it's almost
completely flat at this point. So really
a question about that yield curve
steepening continues with that 30-year
yield at 4.84%
when you round it up and you've got a
similar kind of move. 10ear yield almost
back at 417 to your yield just pinned
there at 350. 1 hour away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers on
it. Dehyra hi Lisa we start with Intel
shares are rising 1.3% on some M&A's
chatter. We are reporting that Intel is
in in advanced talks to buy AI start AI
chip startup Sanova in a deal that could
be valued at $1.6 billion well below its
valuation back in 2021 of $5 billion. So
investors are reacting positively not
just because it would be a bargain but
also because it would it gives Intel a
platform to compete with Nvidia's AI
chips. Meanwhile, also moving on some
potential M&A action is Service Now
shares are moving in the opposite
direction down 5 and a4%. Honor
reporting that it is in advanced talks
to buy cyber security firm Armist in a
deal that could be worth up to $7
billion. A price tag that Bloomberg
Intelligence says seems expensive. We
are also seeing some weakness due to uh
some sellside action with Key Bank
cutting its rating to underweight of
service now. And we end on IMAX. Also
some uh sellside action there. Shares
are rising three and a half percent
after JP Morgan upgraded the stock to
overweight. The analyst has had a change
of heart and now sees IMAX as more than
just a theater chain. Rather, he says
it's a premium live experience brand
benefiting from a strong slate of
upcoming films. So he is raising his
price target to $47 which is about uh
20% upside from here. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Jihara, I love that
we're not a movie business. We are an
experience business, which is very much,
I think, what everyone is trying to be.
Turning to the economy ahead of
tomorrow's payroll data, Bloomberg's
Michael McKe back with us. And Mike, I
know you're going to look ahead to
everything that we're going to get this
week. I would love your thoughts,
though, on Empire Manufacturing from New
York given that it really uh was quite
negative.
>> Yeah. uh uh negative -3.9 down from 18.7
and all pretty much all of the
underlying aspects shipments production
and orders are down significantly. The
only things up a little bit were
employment and a bit of a decline in the
prices paid and prices received indexes.
But this is contemporaneous data. This
is December some of the newest stuff
we've got. So it does matter a little
bit. Uh, now tomorrow, jobs in our last
episode. I feel like one of those shows
that has to catch you up on what
happened the last time in case you
missed it. September payrolls, we got
that in November, 119,000 and
unemployment was 4.4%. The forecast for
October, we don't have one because
there's no October uh data that we can
build on there. But for November, the
forecast for jobs is 50,000, which would
continue a trend of very, very slow job
growth. The big unknown in this is how
many fed federal workers were furled and
not counted and how many were doed when
you're when you were laid off. Your
payments ended at the end of September.
So that could be a big drag on October.
We do expect the health care segment to
keep hiring. Uh the one number to rule
them all of course is going to be
unemployment. Uh it is forecast to tick
up to 4.5% in November, but we won't
really have a comparison because there's
no October household survey, so no
October unemployment rate. We will be
watching labor force growth. There's a
big question about what's happening, of
course, with the deportations. Uh and
then don't touch that dial because
tomorrow, of course, uh we also get the
retail sales numbers we just talked
about. And Wednesday, we'll have Waller
Williams in Boston and they can comment
on all those things. We have uh Waller
today along with Myron, but the data
aren't really uh there for them to talk
about yet. Thursday CPI, that'll be big.
The LA the forecast that we have now is
for 3.1%. We only get year-over-year.
There's not going to be a month-
overmonth because there's no October
CPI. Jobless claims and Friday existing
home sales. Everybody's watching those
to see if mortgages are going to make a
difference. So far, they haven't. So,
this is perhaps the biggest week we've
had for the economy in months. And uh
I'm just trying to remember how to do it
all.
>> Michael McKe, you're doing a great job.
Stay tuned as Michael McKe unravels who
stole the knife. Thank you so much,
Michael McKe. Puja Surum of Barklay is
writing, "We expect non-farm payroll and
employment flat in October and up 50k in
November, providing further evidence
that the labor market is not is slowing
but not breaking. Puja Sri Roma of
Barkclays joining us now. Puja, great to
see you. Thank you so much for being
with us.
>> Thanks. So just looking at slowing but
not breaking, what's the difference
between the two? How narrow is the gap
between slow and and between broken?
>> Yeah, I think that's a great question.
Um I think we're getting close to the
point where people uh ourselves included
are seeing risks clearly to the
downside. Uh but in terms of breaking
that is a world where you expect labor
market slack to shoot up um you know
pick up very rapidly and that's not
something we're seeing either in the
official data or in some of the other
statistics like you know think about job
openings and the separations rate there
um or jobless claims data. So it is um a
labor market which for a while now has
been stuck. You know we're not hiring
but we're not firing as much. So there
is very little dynamism. risks are to
the downside, but we still think we're
not at that point where we're ready to
fall off the cliff.
>> Well, I guess I'm wondering if we're at
an inflection point of sorts, or maybe
we've been grinding along, we could be
heading toward an inflection point. Why
wouldn't it be to the upside? Because we
have seen smaller businesses really pull
back in hiring. The hiring has been
concentrated in the larger uh companies.
if they get some stimulus, if there is
these rate cuts that kind of start
percolating through the economy, why
wouldn't we see a pickup in hiring
rather than sort of the other way
around?
>> That's a great question and I think
that's a very feasible scenario to keep
in mind just given, you know, um we are
quite constructive about growth uh into
2026. We're seeing a lot of positive
impulses that could keep the economy
highly supported and in that world, yes,
you could have a labor market that
actually stabilizes. In fact, our own
forecast, official forecast has the
labor market looking quite resilient in
2026. And we have the unemployment rate
coming down. So, I think we really
subscribe to that view that there is um
a world where the labor market
stabilizes and eventually starts to look
better. But given where we are now, I
think it's reasonable um to also see
that risks could very well be to the
downside. It would take very little to
push the labor market in the opposite
direction. I'm curious how you think
about the legacy of what we have been
through here with this government
shutdown, the delay of data that we
hadn't seen before. And all the while
there was this conversation about what
might be a decent substitute for the
data that we weren't getting from the
labor department. How could we get as
good a sense as we could about the state
of the labor market in light of not
having that data? Now that we're beyond
it, I'm curious sort of what we've
learned about how good a sense we have
of the jobs market in this country. We
heard from the Fed chair suggesting
perhaps there are more fundamental
problems with the way that these job
numbers are are collected and counted.
How are how are you thinking about what
we've been through?
>> Absolutely. So I I would say this that
the government shutdown basically uh
brought to the forefront the fact that
we are highly highly reliant on official
statistics. Um and and there's a good
reason why you know we have very
talented statisticians who've been doing
it the right way for a very long time.
Um but at the same time I think it also
uh exposed the vulnerabilities of
suddenly not having these data or or now
we're in a scenario where the data could
be clouded in some sense right um to
answer your question we we have looked
at a dashboard of indicators which are
quite useful um and are reasonable
alternatives to get a gauge of where the
economy is headed and you know these
come in different shapes and forms
you've got job openings data you've got
um job postings uh some of them about
hiring um so it gives you a decent
picture of where things are, but we
still don't think those are enough to
substitute the official statistics.
>> I suspect Lisa is going to ask about
inflation in a moment. Before we get
there, let me just ask you about the Fed
speak that might obvious. I'm sorry
>> that that Mike was mentioning all that
we're going to hear from and I'm curious
what what are you listening for in
specific? We've talked a lot about the
silent descent, the quiet descent that
that happened at that meeting. Um what
are we likely to learn from kind of
panop speakers who are going to be uh
giving remarks and interviews over the
course of the week? Yeah, I think the
the one thing that stood out in the
December um FOMC meeting is just um how
divergent views are within the
committee. I mean, if you just look at
even the dot plot for example in 2026,
seven uh participants felt that it's
appropriate to hold rates steady where
they are now. Um so I think going into
this week and and also just you know
beyond this week, we want to get a sense
of who's thinking how. For example, we
did hear from Goulsby that his descent
was to some part tied to the fact that
he didn't have enough data to go by,
right? Um and so that gives you some
insight into I guess what he's looking
for. Um, and you know, we we're likely
to get similar insights from others and
and I'm sure like a lot of other Fed
watchers, we'll be try to, you know,
we're trying to place them on the on the
dove hawk lineup um to see exactly where
their minds are at um and to go to give
us a sense really of what the reaction
function is for each of these
participants. Over the weekend, San
Francisco Fed President Mary Daly put
out a blog post and she was talking
about why she supported cutting rates
the last meeting and she talked about
how yes, it was a very difficult
decision because there is this dual uh
dual mandate that's very much in
conflict. She was talking about
inflation. Yes, I was going to talk
about it uh and how it has been really
punitive for these families. But she
said how you get down to 2% matters
because if you get there too quickly,
you break the labor market and then
you've got families grappling with both
above average inflation and uh potential
job losses. Do you think that there is
this theory right now presiding over the
Fed to run the economy a bit hot,
especially at a time of technological
transition with artificial intelligence
posing some existential questions around
the labor market in order to avoid some
sort of labor market scarring at the
expense of inflation not getting down to
2% anytime in the near future?
>> Well, I Okay. Well, this is what I think
stood out to me in the December presser.
there seems to be this um view in the
Fed that uh inflation is really not a
problem right now. Um in fact Chair
Powell's own comments on inflation is
he's quite sanguin about it. Um I think
in some part of the press he did think
that inflation you strip it out of all
the tariff effects is somewhere in the
low twos. Um then he mentioned something
about productivity also likely to
support the economy. So if you sort of
put all those views together, I think
there is this this view out there in in
among the Fed participants that
inflation is perhaps not a problem to be
concerned about and what they need to be
concerned about right now is the labor
market. That's perhaps what you know
Mary Dailyaly is also subscribing to in
some sense. Um my own take is I think
it's a little too premature to to think
that inflation is going to take care of
itself. Um you know we at Barclays have
been saying for a while that we are yet
to see the full effects of tariffs on
the inflation data and sure while it may
be a one-time price shock I think uh
it's a little too early to declare
victory uh on inflation yet thank you so
much for being with us really wonderful
to get your thoughts and have a
wonderful holiday let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
here is your Bloomberg briefs Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zilinski has signaled
Kiev could accept security guarantees
from the United States and Europe in
place of its long-term goal of joining
NATO. Zilinski met with a US delegation
in Berlin on Sunday. Ukraine has sought
NATO membership for years, but has
altered its rhetoric as Washington
presses for the war to end. A JetBlue
flight halted its climb to avoid
colliding with a US Air Force tanker on
Friday. According to air traffic control
recordings, the pilot flying from
Kurasawa to New York's JFK blamed the
military craft for crossing its flight
path. The incident comes alongside
increased military presence near
Venezuela. The Air Force did not
immediately respond for comment. And in
sports, the LA Rams clinching a playoff
spot o with a win over the Detroit
Lions. Michael Bar will be very happy.
Meanwhile, the Bills came back to beat
the Patriots and the Ravens shut out the
Bengals. However, the biggest news from
the NFL Sunday, Chiefs quarterback
Patrick Mahomes and Packers defender
Micah Parsons both suffering season
ending knee injuries. That is your
Bloomberg brief. Up next, setting you up
for the day ahead. Plus, Allesio Dongis
of Invesco as he was reigning overweight
equities heading into the new year. From
New York, you're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
I think non-farm payrolls is far more
important for the Fed because they have
told us that they will look through any
kind of stickiness within CPI on the
good side of things because of tariffs
being considered not transitory but a
one-time impact. I think the important
thing on inflation is that if we look at
those big components, as Kathy was
mentioning, you're still seeing wages
look like they're pointing lower. That
was Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
earlier this morning ahead of what is
going to be one of the busiest economic
data weeks of the year. Right now,
markets really uh increasing, gaining
steam throughout the morning, up a half
a percent on S&P futures, seeing that
dollar weakness, 11757 on the Euro
dollar cross and yields bid, yields down
on the 10-year, almost three basis
points now to 41587.
Sticking with central banks, Treasury
yields edging up ahead of this week's
data releases after the Fed outlined
plans for a new round of bond purchases
that Ira Jersey and the rates team at
Bloomberg Intelligence is called
Quantitative easing light. Ira joins us
now from more on what this means. Ira,
don't call it quantitative easing. This
was sort of the announcement that tried
to sound like paint drying. It did not
work that way in markets. How is this
like quantitative easing if even if not
quite?
>> Yeah. So, if if the Federal Reserve was
just doing5 to$10 billion a month in
these reserve management purchases, you
could I I could make the argument that
it's not quantitative easing. the fact
that the that the Fed has decided that
it's going to be doing $40 billion a
month for at least a few months and and
up until tax day, you you have to
there's going to be a similar reaction
in risk asset markets in particular to
uh quantitative easing. Now, it's not
going to be sustained and I think that
that's an important um aspect of this is
that you are talking about a three or
four month um purchase program of around
40 billion. It's also not designed to
get long-term yields lower because
you're you're they're only going to be
buying T bills and very shortterm uh
coupon debt. So things like one year to
maturity debt. So So that's not going to
have the effect of like getting mortgage
rates down very very much at all. So So
it does have a much different um uh uh
both effect but also purpose than um
than quantitative easing did back in
2020 or or in 2008 to 2014 as well. So
Ira, is it fair to say this will support
risk assets in a broader sense with a
signal that the Fed is going to backs
stop and expand its balance sheet uh to
manage liquidity at a time where
liquidity has changed based on how big
the deficit is in the United States?
>> Well, it's not only the deficit. You
know, the big change here is like look,
I know that there's some people are
saying, well, look, before 2007, we
didn't have any excess reserves and we
had very small balance sheet. But the
fact is is that one of the reasons why
you have this this bump in liquidity
here um or need a bump in liquidity here
is because uh reserve balances are now
used for a lot of the basil regulations
by the large banks and so so so the
thing is you need these reserves in the
system in order just to keep the
plumbing working. Um so so the so the
Fed went too far. This is an
acknowledgement by the Fed that it went
too far in shrinking its balance sheet
and now it has to you know make up for
that little bit because you know this
idea that that Jay Powell said like look
we want an ample reserve regime. You
know reserves are either ample or
they're not. So you really need to have
a buffer above the uh this tipping point
of reserves which you know we've now
proven is somewhere around $2.9 trillion
in in um in reserve balances at the
moment. And then naturally that those
are going to have to grow as the economy
grows because that's just the way it
works. And keep in mind, and and this is
something that I think a lot of people
who have only been in the markets for
the last 15 or 20 years forget, prior to
2007, the Fed expanded its balance sheet
almost every single month from 1973
until 2008. And so, so this would not be
that unusual. Again, if they were doing
small amounts, 510 billion, 40 billion
has to be called QE light in my book.
>> Jersey of Bloomberg Intelligence, thank
you so much for that. Turning back to
markets more broadly, futures gaining
ahead of the year's last full trading
week. Allesio Dongas of Invesco eyeing
broader opportunities in 2026, writing,
"A recent shift towards value and small
and midcaps and broad diversific
diversification between US and non- US
equities should provide better downside
protection." Allesio joins us now.
Allesio, thank you so much for being
here. It's great to see you. So, how has
the concept of diversification changed
over the past couple of years? It was
once bonds and stock 6040 then it was a
question of whether you have exus or US.
Where are we right now?
>> Well, we're we're in a situation where
well, by the way, you mentioned the last
couple of years and we talked about the
death of the 6040 and let's first
acknowledge that 2025 6040 performed
tremendously well as all assets did did
um particularly well. But it's been a
few years where diversification
penalized you. It was all about market
concentration in the US within US
equities in the MAX7s and in global
equities. If you took as the simplest
step away from US equities, you would
have underperformed.
The evidence now in the last few months
is that that longwaited broadening of
market participation particularly in
equity markets is really taking place
and it's not just in the price action.
You're seeing a convergence between
midcaps, small caps and international of
and US equaps. In international, of
course, we've seen due to the dollar,
international markets have actually
outperformed. But we are beginning to
see it also in sectors. And it's not
just price performance. You're beginning
to see it in earnings revisions. For the
first time in the last couple of months,
we are seeing earnings revisions in
international markets are now moving
into positive territory and catching up
with what was previously a divergence
between US equities and non- US
equities. So the expectations around
fundamentals are also supporting that
broadening market participation. And
just the last data point, AI MAG7 tech
earnings growth expectations 18%. the
lowest in the last four years. Still
very strong, but the lowest in the last
four years and not too much ahead of the
overall S&P 500. So that convergence is
really happening. Diversification should
begin to pay off again.
>> Let's play this out a bit more. We're
going to be using this phrase
magnificent 7 in 2026 or we I know a lot
of people think we should be using it
now be keen to retire it, but what is
what does the conversation look like in
the year ahead when it comes to these
kind of hyperscalers in big tech? I I
think from a fundamental perspective,
the terminology magnificent 7 and US
exceptionalism from a fundamental
perspective is untouched. Right? We're
talking about behemoths. We're talking
about champions that in financial
markets we have never seen before in
terms of uh fundamental strength and
nearly monopolistic conditions. Uh but
the while the narrative will most likely
play out,
the price changes. Mhm.
>> Right. It's all about expectations.
These high growth stocks
don't need to see negative earnings
forecast or negative growth for them to
sell off or to see underperformance
relative to the other parts of the
market. High growth stocks can simply
see a still positive but lower growth
rate to trigger that rotation into other
sectors. Again, we're not calling for a
sell-off, but we think that the
proverbial unwind of the big of the tech
trade is more a a rotation into other
segments of the market rather than a
crash in the in the tech trade.
>> So, that recalibration of expectations,
does it give you more confidence when
you see results like we saw last week
from Oracle or or Broadcom that that's
kind of a necessary evolution or growth
that's taking place in terms of the way
that we think about expectations?
>> That's very well put. I think the the
names that you're referring to and the
some of the developments, the headlines
from last week is is the evolution. What
do I mean by that? We spent the last
three years where anything AI, anything
techreated was a tailwind. There was a
structural shift. Now with excess no
with substantial investment substantial
spending we're entering now the phase
where we will begin to see winners and
losers I am not in a position to say
which one those winners and losers are
from a single name perspective but
that's the evolution you're beginning to
see you're seeing two orbits now the
open AI orbit and the alphabet orbit and
all of the the cl the the companies that
service and are exposed and have deals
on the finan enhancing side or the
contracting side. With those two orbits,
we this large capex uh that we continue
to see on from a macro standpoint, some
will see zero return on assets or return
on investment. Some will see very large
payouts and that's where the valuations
will come down because valuations coming
down will be a reflection of a wider
range wider unc uncertainty wider range
of outcomes rather than previously was
an the expectation was for a much
narrower range of outcomes.
>> Yeah, the show me moment for a lot of
these AI names. Lesio Dongas, wonderful
to see you. Thank you so much for being
with us here. Allesio Dongis of Invesco
and David Gura. Thank you so much for
being with us. Truly awesome to have you
as we look toward a really busy week and
potentially the last real week of 2025.
I shouldn't say that because a lot it's
going to happen but a lot of people are
going off. But we are going to be
getting a host of economic data. Fed
speak as well as central bank decisions
coming up tomorrow. Paul Kesi of JP
Morgan, Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research,
Monica Gara of Morgan Stanley and
Francis Donald of RBC Capital Markets.
as we count you down to non-farm
payrolls for November. We finally get
the data as well as retail sales. Thank
you so much for being with us. That was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.